 






Contents

Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3rd Generation Partnership Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x	the first digit:
1	presented to TSG for information;
2	presented to TSG for approval;
3	or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y	the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z	the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been incorporated in the document.
1	Scope
The present document specifies the Radio Resource Control protocol for the radio interface between UE and NG-RAN.
The scope of the present document also includes:
-	the radio related information transported in a transparent container between source gNB and target gNB upon inter gNB handover;
-	the radio related information transported in a transparent container between a source or target gNB and another system upon inter RAT handover.
-	the radio related information transported in a transparent container between a source eNB and target gNB during E-UTRA-NR Dual Connectivity.
The RRC protocol is also used to configure the radio interface between an IAB-node and its parent node [2], and the radio interface between an NCR-node and gNB [2].
2	References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this text, constitute provisions of the present document.
-	References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition number, version number, etc.) or nonspecific.
-	For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
-	For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document in the same Release as the present document.

[1]	3GPP TR 21.905: "Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications".
[2]	3GPP TS 38.300: "NR; Overall description; Stage 2".
[3]	3GPP TS 38.321: "NR; Medium Access Control (MAC); Protocol specification".
[4]	3GPP TS 38.322: "NR; Radio Link Control (RLC) protocol specification".
[5]	3GPP TS 38.323: "NR; Packet Data Convergence Protocol (PDCP) protocol specification".
[6]	ITU-T Recommendation X.680 (08/2015) "Information Technology – Abstract Syntax Notation One (ASN.1): Specification of basic notation" (Same as the ISO/IEC International Standard 8824-1).
[7]	ITU-T Recommendation X.681 (08/2015) "Information Technology – Abstract Syntax Notation One (ASN.1): Information object specification" (Same as the ISO/IEC International Standard 8824-2).
[8]	ITU-T Recommendation X.691 (08/2015) "Information technology – ASN.1 encoding rules: Specification of Packed Encoding Rules (PER)" (Same as the ISO/IEC International Standard 8825-2).
[9]	3GPP TS 38.215: "NR; Physical layer measurements".
[10]	3GPP TS 36.331: "Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access (E-UTRA) Radio Resource Control (RRC); Protocol Specification".
[11]	3GPP TS 33.501: "Security Architecture and Procedures for 5G System".
[12]	3GPP TS 38.104: "NR; Base Station (BS) radio transmission and reception".
[13]	3GPP TS 38.213: "NR; Physical layer procedures for control".
[14]	3GPP TS 38.133: "NR; Requirements for support of radio resource management".
[15]	3GPP TS 38.101-1: "NR; User Equipment (UE) radio transmission and reception; Part 1: Range 1 Standalone".
[16]	3GPP TS 38.211: "NR; Physical channels and modulation".
[17]	3GPP TS 38.212: "NR; Multiplexing and channel coding".
[18]	ITU-T Recommendation X.683 (08/2015) "Information Technology – Abstract Syntax Notation One (ASN.1): Parameterization of ASN.1 specifications" (Same as the ISO/IEC International Standard 8824-4).
[19]	3GPP TS 38.214: "NR; Physical layer procedures for data".
[20]	3GPP TS 38.304: "NR; User Equipment (UE) procedures in Idle mode and RRC Inactive state".
[21]	3GPP TS 23.003: "Numbering, addressing and identification".
[22]	3GPP TS 36.101: "E-UTRA; User Equipment (UE) radio transmission and reception".
[23]	3GPP TS 24.501: "Non-Access-Stratum (NAS) protocol for 5G System (5GS); Stage 3".
[24]	3GPP TS 37.324: "Service Data Adaptation Protocol (SDAP) specification".
[25]	3GPP TS 22.261: "Service requirements for the 5G System".
[26]	3GPP TS 38.306: "User Equipment (UE) radio access capabilities".
[27]	3GPP TS 36.304: "E-UTRA; User Equipment (UE) procedures in idle mode".
[28]	ATIS 0700041: "WEA 3.0: Device-Based Geo-Fencing".
[29]	3GPP TS 23.041: "Technical realization of Cell Broadcast Service (CBS)".
[30]	3GPP TS 33.401: "3GPP System Architecture Evolution (SAE); Security architecture".
[31]	3GPP TS 36.211: "E-UTRA; Physical channels and modulation".
[32]	3GPP TS 23.501: "System Architecture for the 5G System; Stage 2".
[33]	3GPP TS 36.104:"E-UTRA; Base Station (BS) radio transmission and reception".
[34]	3GPP TS 38.101-3 "NR; User Equipment (UE) radio transmission and reception; Part 3: Range 1 and Range 2 Interworking operation with other radios".
[35]	3GPP TS 38.423: "NG-RAN, Xn application protocol (XnAP)".
[36]	3GPP TS 38.473: "NG-RAN; F1 application protocol (F1AP)".
[37]	3GPP TS 36.423: "E-UTRA; X2 application protocol (X2AP)".
[38]	3GPP TS 24.008: "Mobile radio interface layer 3 specification; Core network protocols; Stage 3".
[39]	3GPP TS 38.101-2 "NR; User Equipment (UE) radio transmission and reception; Part 2: Range 2 Standalone".
[40]	3GPP TS 36.133:"E-UTRA; Requirements for support of radio resource management".
[41]	3GPP TS 37.340: "E-UTRA and NR; Multi-connectivity; Stage 2".
[42]	3GPP TS 38.413: "NG-RAN, NG Application Protocol (NGAP)".
[43]	3GPP TS 23.502: "Procedures for the 5G System; Stage 2".
[44]	3GPP TR 36.816: "Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access (E-UTRA); Study on signalling and procedure for interference avoidance for in-device coexistence ".
[45]	3GPP TS 25.331: "Universal Terrestrial Radio Access (UTRA); Radio Resource Control (RRC); Protocol specification".
[46]	3GPP TS 25.133: "Requirements for Support of Radio Resource Management (FDD)".
[47]	3GPP TS 38.340: "Backhaul Adaptation Protocol (BAP) specification"
[48]	3GPP TS 37.213: "Physical layer procedures for shared spectrum channel access".
[49]	3GPP TS 37.355: "LTE Positioning Protocol (LPP)".
[50]	IEEE 802.11-2012, Part 11: Wireless LAN Medium Access Control (MAC) and Physical Layer (PHY) specifications, IEEE Std.
[51]	Bluetooth Special Interest Group: "Bluetooth Core Specification v5.0", December 2016.
[52]	3GPP TS 32.422: "Telecommunication management; Subscriber and equipment trace; Trace control and configuration management".
[53]	3GPP TS 38.314: "NR; layer 2 measurements".
[54]	Void.
[55]	3GPP TS 23.287: "Architecture enhancements for 5G System (5GS) to support Vehicle-to-Everything (V2X) services".
[56]	3GPP TS 23.285: "Technical Specification Group Services and System Aspects; Architecture enhancements for V2X services".
[57]	3GPP TS 24.587: " Technical Specification Group Core Network and Terminals; Vehicle-to-Everything (V2X) services in 5G System (5GS)".
[58]	Military Standard WGS84 Metric MIL-STD-2401 (11 January 1994): "Military Standard Department of Defence World Geodetic System (WGS)".
[59]	3GPP TS 38.101-4 "NR; User Equipment (UE) radio transmission and reception; Part 4: Performance Requirements".
[60]	3GPP TS 33.536: "Technical Specification Group Services and System Aspects; Security aspects of 3GPP support for advanced Vehicle-to-Everything (V2X) services".
[61]	3GPP TS 37.320: "Radio measurement collection for Minimization of Drive Tests (MDT); Overall description; Stage 2".
[62]	3GPP TS 36.306: "User Equipment (UE) radio access capabilities".
[63]	3GPP TS 38.174: "NR; Integrated Access and Backhaul (IAB) radio transmission and reception".
[64]	3GPP TS 38.472: "NG-RAN; F1 signalling transport".
[65]	3GPP TS 23.304: "Proximity based Services (ProSe) in the 5G System (5GS)".
[66]	3GPP TS 38.351: "NR; Sidelink Relay Adaptation Protocol (SRAP) Specification".
[67]	3GPP TS 23.247: "Architectural enhancements for 5G multicast-broadcast services; Stage 2"
[68]	3GPP TS 26.247: "Transparent end-to-end Packet-switched Streaming Service (PSS); Progressive Download and Dynamic Adaptive Streaming over HTTP (3GP-DASH)".
[69]	3GPP TS 26.114: "IP Multimedia Subsystem (IMS); Multimedia Telephony; Media handling and interaction".
[70]	3GPP TS 26.118: "Virtual Reality (VR) profiles for streaming applications".
[71]	NIMA TR 8350.2, Third Edition, Amendment 1, 3 January 2000: "DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE WORLD GEODETIC SYSTEM 1984".
[72]	3GPP TS 24.554: "Technical Specification Group Core Network and Terminals; Proximity-services (ProSe) in 5G System (5GS) protocol".
[73]	3GPP TS 38.305: "NG Radio Access Network (NG-RAN); Stage 2 functional specification of User Equipment (UE) positioning in NG-RAN".
[74]	3GPP TS 23.122: "Non-Access-Stratum (NAS) functions related to Mobile Station (MS) in idle mode".
[75]	3GPP TS 38.101-5: "User Equipment (UE) radio transmission and reception; Part 5: Satellite access Radio Frequency (RF) and performance requirements".
[76]	3GPP TS 23.256: "Support of Uncrewed Aerial Systems (UAS) connectivity, identification and tracking; Stage 2".
[77]	3GPP TS 38.355: "NR; Sidelink Positioning Protocol (SLPP); Protocol Specification".
[78]	3GPP TS 24.588: "Technical Specification Group Core Network and Terminals; Vehicle-to-Everything (V2X) services in 5G System (5GS); User Equipment (UE) policies; Stage 3".
[79]	3GPP TS 38.106: "NR; NR Repeater Radio Transmission and Reception".
[80]	3GPP TS 28.405: "Technical Specification Group Services and System Aspects; Telecommunication management; Quality of Experience (QoE) measurement collection; Control and configuration".
3	Definitions, symbols and abbreviations
3.1	Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in TR 21.905 [1] and the following apply. A term defined in the present document takes precedence over the definition of the same term, if any, in TR 21.905 [1].
2Rx XR UE: Two antenna port XR UE as specified in TS 38.101-1 [15].
A2X communication: A communication to support A2X services leveraging PC5 reference points, as defined in TS 23.256 [76]. A2X services are realized by various types of A2X applications, e.g., BRID or DAA.
Additional sidelink RLC bearer: If the sidelink PDCP entity is associated with two sidelink RLC entities, the additional sidelink RLC bearer is the RLC bearer configured by sl-RLC-BearerToAddModListSizeExt in sl-ConfigDedicatedNR, or sl-RLC-BearerConfigListSizeExt in SIB12 or in SidelinkPreconfigNR.
Aerial UE: UE performing Aerial UE communication, as defined in TS 38.300 [2], clause 16.18 and TS 23.256 [76].
AM MRB: An MRB associated with at least an AM RLC bearer for PTP transmission.
BH RLC channel: An RLC channel between two nodes, which is used to transport backhaul packets.
Broadcast MRB: A radio bearer configured for MBS broadcast delivery.
CEIL: Mathematical function used to 'round up' i.e. to the nearest integer having a higher or equal value.
DAPS bearer: a bearer whose radio protocols are located in both the source gNB and the target gNB during DAPS handover to use both source gNB and target gNB resources.
Data Burst: A set of multiple PDUs generated and sent by the application in a short period of time, as defined in TS 23.501 [32].
Dedicated signalling: Signalling sent on DCCH logical channel between the network and a single UE.
Dormant BWP: The dormant BWP is one of downlink BWPs configured by the network via dedicated RRC signalling. In the dormant BWP, the UE stops monitoring PDCCH on/for the SCell, but continues performing CSI measurements, Automatic Gain Control (AGC) and beam management, if configured. For each serving cell other than the SpCell or PUCCH SCell, the network may configure one BWP as a dormant BWP.
Earth-fixed cell: An NTN cell fixed with respect to a certain geographic area on Earth. It can be provisioned by beam(s) continuously covering the same geographical area (e.g., the case of GSO satellites).
Earth-moving cell: An NTN cell moving on the ground. It can be provisioned by beam(s) whose coverage area slides over the Earth's surface (e.g., the case of NGSO satellites generating fixed or non-steerable beams).
eRedCap UE: A UE with enhanced reduced capabilities as specified in clause 4.2.22.1 in TS 38.306 [26].
Field: The individual contents of an information element are referred to as fields.
FLOOR: Mathematical function used to 'round down' i.e. to the nearest integer having a lower or equal value.
Frequency Selection Area ID: An identity used for broadcast MBS session to guide the frequency selection of the UE as defined in TS 23.247 [67].
Global cell identity: An identity to uniquely identifying an NR cell. It is consisted of cellIdentity and plmn-Identity of the first PLMN-Identity in plmn-IdentityList in SIB1.
Information element: A structural element containing single or multiple fields is referred as information element.
Candidate configuration: A configuration part of an RRCReconfiguration message associated with a candidate cell, e.g., for LTM or subsequent CPAC. A candidate configuration can be a complete candidate configuration or a delta configuration relatively to a reference configuration.
Reference configuration: A configuration provided by the network to the UE that is common, within the same cell group, to a group of configured non-complete candidate configurations.
MBS Radio Bearer: A radio bearer that is configured for MBS delivery.
Mobile IAB-MT: mobile IAB-node function that terminates the Uu interface to the parent node using the procedures and behaviours specified for UEs unless stated otherwise. The mobile IAB-MT uses the same procedures and behaviours specified for the IAB-MT, unless explicitly stated otherwise.
Mobile IAB-node: RAN node that supports NR access links to UEs and an NR backhaul link to a parent node, and that can conduct physical mobility across the RAN area. The mobile IAB-node function used in 38-series of 3GPP Specifications corresponds to the MBSR function defined in TS 23.501 [32]. The mobile IAB-node uses the same procedures and behaviours specified for the IAB-node, unless explicitly stated otherwise.
Multicast/Broadcast Service: A point-to-multipoint service as defined in TS 23.247 [67].
Multicast MRB: A radio bearer configured for MBS multicast delivery.
MUSIM gap: Period that the UE may use to perform MUSIM operations.
Multi-path: Mode of operation of a UE in RRC_CONNECTED configured with one direct path on which the UE connects to gNB using NR Uu, and one indirect path on which the UE connects to the same gNB via another UE using PC5 unicast link or Non-3GPP Connection.
MP remote UE: A UE configured with Multi-path. When the connectivity of indirect path is PC5 unicast link, the MP remote UE is acting as a L2 U2N Remote UE. When the connectivity of indirect path is Non-3GPP Connection, the MP remote UE is acting as a N3C remote UE.
MP relay UE: A UE that provides connectivity of indirect path to a MP remote UE. When the connectivity is PC5 unicast link, the MP relay UE is acting as a L2 U2N Relay UE. When the connectivity is Non-3GPP Connection, the MP relay UE is acting as a N3C relay UE.
NCSG: Network controlled small gap as defined in TS 38.133 [14].
NPN-only Cell: A cell that is only available for normal service for NPNs' subscriber. An NPN-capable UE determines that a cell is NPN-only Cell by detecting that the cellReservedForOtherUse IE is set to true while the npn-IdentityInfoList IE is present in CellAccessRelatedInfo.
N3C indirect path: In Multi-path, the indirect path using Non-3GPP Connection between remote UE and relay UE.
NR sidelink communication: AS functionality enabling at least V2X Communication as defined in TS 23.287 [55] and/or A2X Communication as defined in TS 23.256 [76] and/or ProSe Communication (including ProSe UE-to-Network Relay, non-Relay communication, and ProSe UE-to-UE Relay Communication including UE-to-UE Relay communication with integrated discovery) as defined in TS 23.304 [65] between two or more nearby UEs, using NR technology but not traversing any network node.
NR sidelink discovery: AS functionality enabling ProSe non-Relay Discovery, ProSe UE-to-Network Relay discovery and ProSe UE-to-UE Relay discovery for Proximity based Services as defined in TS 23.304 [65] between two or more nearby UEs, using NR technology but not traversing any network node.
NR sidelink positioning: AS functionality which determines geographical or relative location and possibly velocity of a target UE or ranging via PC5 interface using SL-PRS transmission and reception as defined in TS 38.305 [73] and TS 38.355 [77].
PNI-NPN identity: an identifier of a PNI-NPN comprising of a PLMN ID and a CAG-ID combination.
Primary Cell: The MCG cell, operating on the primary frequency, in which the UE either performs the initial connection establishment procedure or initiates the connection re-establishment procedure.
PC5 Relay RLC channel: An RLC channel between L2 U2N Remote UE and L2 U2N Relay UE, or between L2 U2U Remote UE and L2 U2U Relay UE, which is used to transport packets over PC5 for L2 UE-to-Network relay or L2 UE-to-UE relay.
PDU Set: one or more PDUs carrying the payload of one unit of information generated at the application level (e.g. frame(s) or video slice(s) for XR Services), as defined in TS 23.501 [32].
Primary SCG Cell: For dual connectivity operation, the SCG cell in which the UE performs random access when performing the Reconfiguration with Sync procedure.
Primary Timing Advance Group: Timing Advance Group containing the SpCell.
PUCCH SCell: An SCell configured with PUCCH by PUCCH-Config.
PUSCH-Less SCell: An SCell configured without PUSCH.
Quasi-Earth-fixed cell: An NTN cell fixed with respect to a certain geographic area on Earth during a certain time duration. It can be provisioned by beam(s) covering one geographic area for a limited period and a different geographic area during another period (e.g., the case of NGSO satellites generating steerable beams).
RedCap UE: A UE with reduced capabilities as specified in clause 4.2.21.1 in TS 38.306 [26].
RLC bearer configuration: The lower layer part of the radio bearer configuration comprising the RLC and logical channel configurations.
Secondary Cell: For a UE configured with CA, a cell providing additional radio resources on top of Special Cell.
Secondary Cell Group: For a UE configured with dual connectivity, the subset of serving cells comprising of the PSCell and zero or more secondary cells.
Serving Cell: For a UE in RRC_CONNECTED not configured with CA/DC there is only one serving cell comprising of the primary cell. For a UE in RRC_CONNECTED configured with CA/ DC the term 'serving cells' is used to denote the set of cells comprising of the Special Cell(s) and all secondary cells.
Small Data Transmission: A procedure used for transmission of data and/or signalling over allowed radio bearers in RRC_INACTIVE state (i.e. without the UE transitioning to RRC_CONNECTED state). The SDT procedure is considered to be ongoing once the conditions for initating SDT as specified in clause 5.3.13.1b are fulfilled until the SDT procedure is completed either successfully or unsuccessfully as specified in clause 18.0 in TS 38.300 [2].
SNPN identity: an identifier of an SNPN comprising of a PLMN ID and an NID combination.
SL indirect path: In Multi-path, the indirect path using PC5 unicast link between remote UE and relay UE.
Special Cell: For Dual Connectivity operation the term Special Cell refers to the PCell of the MCG or the PSCell of the SCG, otherwise the term Special Cell refers to the PCell.
Split DRB: In MR-DC, a DRB that supports transmission via MCG and SCG, as well as duplication of PDCP PDUs as defined in TS 37.340 [41]; or in MP, a DRB that supports transmission via direct path and indirect path, as well as duplication of PDCP PDUs.
Split SRB: In MR-DC, an SRB that supports transmission via MCG and SCG as well as duplication of RRC PDUs as defined in TS 37.340 [41]; or in MP, a SRB that supports transmission via direct path and indirect path, as well as duplication of PDCP PDUs.
SSB Frequency: Frequency referring to the position of resource element RE=#0 (subcarrier #0) of resource block RB#10 of the SS block.
U2N Relay UE: A UE that provides functionality to support connectivity to the network for U2N Remote UE(s).
U2N Remote UE: A UE that communicates with the network via a U2N Relay UE.
U2U Relay UE: A UE that provides functionality to support connectivity between two U2U Remote UEs.
U2U Remote UE: A UE that communicates with other UEs via a U2U Relay UE.
Uu Relay RLC channel: An RLC channel between L2 U2N Relay UE and gNB, which is used to transport packets over Uu for L2 UE-to-Network relay or for indirect path in case of MP.
UE Inactive AS Context: UE Inactive AS Context is stored when the connection is suspended and restored when the connection is resumed. It includes information as defined in clause 5.3.8.3.
V2X sidelink communication: AS functionality enabling V2X Communication as defined in TS 23.285 [56], between nearby UEs, using E-UTRA technology but not traversing any network node.
3.2	Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in TR 21.905 [1] and the following apply. An abbreviation defined in the present document takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if any, in TR 21.905 [1].
5GC	5G Core Network
A2X	Aircraft-to-Everything
ACK	Acknowledgement
AM	Acknowledged Mode
ARQ	Automatic Repeat Request
AS	Access Stratum
ASN.1	Abstract Syntax Notation One
ATG	Air to Ground
BAP	Backhaul Adaptation Protocol
BCD	Binary Coded Decimal
BFD	Beam Failure Detection
BH	Backhaul
BLER	Block Error Rate
BRID	Broadcast Remote Identification
BSR	Buffer Status Report
BWP	Bandwidth Part
CA	Carrier Aggregation
CAG	Closed Access Group
CAG-ID	Closed Access Group Identifier
CAPC	Channel Access Priority Class
CBR	Channel Busy Ratio
CCCH	Common Control Channel
CFR	Common Frequency Resources
CG	Cell Group
CHO	Conditional Handover
CLI	Cross Link Interference
CMAS	Commercial Mobile Alert Service
CP	Control Plane
CPA	Conditional PSCell Addition
CPAC	Conditional PSCell Addition or Change
CPC	Conditional PSCell Change
C-RNTI	Cell RNTI
CSI	Channel State Information
DAA	Detect And Avoid
DAPS	Dual Active Protocol Stack
DC	Dual Connectivity
DCCH	Dedicated Control Channel
DCI	Downlink Control Information
DCP	DCI with CRC scrambled by PS-RNTI
DFN	Direct Frame Number
DL	Downlink
DL-PRS	Downlink Positioning Reference Signal
DL-SCH	Downlink Shared Channel
DM-RS	Demodulation Reference Signal
DRB	(user) Data Radio Bearer
DRX	Discontinuous Reception
DSR	Delay Status Report
DTCH	Dedicated Traffic Channel
DTX	Discontinuous Transmission
ECEF	Earth-Centered, Earth-Fixed
ECI	Earth-Centered Inertial
EN-DC	E-UTRA NR Dual Connectivity with E-UTRA connected to EPC
EPC	Evolved Packet Core
EPS	Evolved Packet System
ETWS	Earthquake and Tsunami Warning System
E-UTRA	Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access
E-UTRA/5GC	E-UTRA connected to 5GC
E-UTRA/EPC	E-UTRA connected to EPC
E-UTRAN	Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access Network
FDD	Frequency Division Duplex
FFS	For Further Study
G-CS-RNTI	Group Configured Scheduling RNTI
GERAN	GSM/EDGE Radio Access Network
GIN	Group ID for Network selection
GNSS	Global Navigation Satellite System
G-RNTI	Group RNTI
GSM	Global System for Mobile Communications
GSO	Geosynchronous Orbit
HARQ	Hybrid Automatic Repeat Request
HRNN	Human Readable Network Name
HSDN	High Speed Dedicated Network
H-SFN	Hyper SFN
HST	High Speed Train
IAB	Integrated Access and Backhaul
IAB-DU	IAB-node DU
IAB-MT	IAB Mobile Termination
IDC	In-Device Coexistence
IE	Information element
IMSI	International Mobile Subscriber Identity
kB	Kilobyte (1000 bytes)
L1	Layer 1
L2	Layer 2
L3	Layer 3
LBT	Listen Before Talk
LEO	Low Earth Orbit
LTM	L1/L2 Triggered Mobility
MAC	Medium Access Control
MBS	Multicast/Broadcast Service
MBS FSAI	MBS Frequency Selection Area Identity
MCCH	MBS Control Channel
MCG	Master Cell Group
MDT	Minimization of Drive Tests
MIB	Master Information Block
MO-SDT	Mobile Originated SDT
MPE	Maximum Permissible Exposure
MP	Multi-path
MRB	MBS Radio Bearer
MR-DC	Multi-Radio Dual Connectivity
MTCH	MBS Traffic Channel
MT-SDT	Mobile Terminated SDT
MTSI	Multimedia Telephony Service for IMS
MUSIM	Multi-Universal Subscriber Identity Module
N3C	Non-3GPP Connection
N/A	Not Applicable
NCR	Network-Controlled Repeater
NCR-Fwd	NCR Forwarding
NCR-MT	NCR Mobile Termination
NE-DC	NR E-UTRA Dual Connectivity
NES	Network Energy Savings
(NG)EN-DC	E-UTRA NR Dual Connectivity (covering E-UTRA connected to EPC or 5GC)
NGEN-DC	E-UTRA NR Dual Connectivity with E-UTRA connected to 5GC
NID	Network Identifier
NPN	Non-Public Network
NR-DC	NR-NR Dual Connectivity
NR/5GC	NR connected to 5GC
NSAG	Network Slice AS Group
NTN	Non-Terrestrial Network
PCell	Primary Cell
PDCP	Packet Data Convergence Protocol
PDU	Protocol Data Unit
PEI	Paging Early Indication
PEI-O	Paging Early Indication-Occasion
PLMN	Public Land Mobile Network
PNI-NPN	Public Network Integrated Non-Public Network
posSIB	Positioning SIB
PPW	PRS Processing Window
PRS	Positioning Reference Signal
PSCell	Primary SCG Cell
PSI	PDU Set Importance
PTM	Point to Multipoint
PTP	Point to Point
PWS	Public Warning System
QoE	Quality of Experience
QoS	Quality of Service
RAN	Radio Access Network
RAT	Radio Access Technology
RLC	Radio Link Control
RLM	Radio Link Monitoring
RMTC	RSSI Measurement Timing Configuration
RNA	RAN-based Notification Area
RNTI	Radio Network Temporary Identifier
ROHC	Robust Header Compression
RPLMN	Registered Public Land Mobile Network
RRC	Radio Resource Control
RS	Reference Signal
SBAS	Satellite Based Augmentation System
SCell	Secondary Cell
SCG	Secondary Cell Group
SCS	Subcarrier Spacing
SD-RSRP	Sidelink Discovery RSRP
SDT	Small Data Transmission
SFN	Single Frequency Network
SFN	System Frame Number
SFTD	SFN and Frame Timing Difference
SI	System Information
SIB	System Information Block
SL	Sidelink
SL-PRS	Sidelink Positioning Reference Signal
SLSS	Sidelink Synchronisation Signal
SNPN	Stand-alone Non-Public Network
SpCell	Special Cell
SRAP	Sidelink Relay Adaptation Protocol
SRB	Signalling Radio Bearer
SRS	Sounding Reference Signal
SSB	Synchronization Signal Block
TAG	Timing Advance Group
TDCP	Time Domain Channel Property
TDD	Time Division Duplex
TEG	Timing Error Group
TM	Transparent Mode
TMGI	Temporary Mobile Group Identity
TN	Terrestrial Network
TSS	Timing Synchronization Status.
U2N	UE-to-Network
U2U	UE-to-UE
UDC	Uplink Data Compression
UE	User Equipment
UL	Uplink
UM	Unacknowledged Mode
UP	User Plane
VR	Virtual Reality
VSAT	Very Small Aperture Terminal
XR	eXtended Reality
In the ASN.1, lower case may be used for some (parts) of the above abbreviations e.g. c-RNTI.
4	General
4.1	Introduction
This specification is organised as follows:
-	clause 4.2 describes the RRC protocol model;
-	clause 4.3 specifies the services provided to upper layers as well as the services expected from lower layers;
-	clause 4.4 lists the RRC functions;
-	clause 5 specifies RRC procedures, including UE state transitions;
-	clause 6 specifies the RRC messages in ASN.1 and description;
-	clause 7 specifies the variables (including protocol timers and constants) and counters to be used by the UE;
-	clause 8 specifies the encoding of the RRC messages;
-	clause 9 specifies the specified and default radio configurations;
-	clause 10 specifies generic error handling;
-	clause 11 specifies the RRC messages transferred across network nodes;
-	clause 12 specifies the UE capability related constraints and performance requirements.
4.2	Architecture
4.2.1	UE states and state transitions including inter RAT
A UE is either in RRC_CONNECTED state or in RRC_INACTIVE state when an RRC connection has been established. If this is not the case, i.e. no RRC connection is established, the UE is in RRC_IDLE state. The RRC states can further be characterised as follows:
-	RRC_IDLE:
-	A UE specific DRX may be configured by upper layers;
-	At lower layers, the UE may be configured with a DRX for PTM transmission of MBS broadcast;
-	UE controlled mobility based on network configuration;
-	The UE:
-	Monitors Short Messages transmitted with P-RNTI over DCI (see clause 6.5);
-	Monitors a Paging channel for CN paging using 5G-S-TMSI, except if the UE is acting as a L2 U2N Remote UE;
-	If configured by upper layers for MBS multicast reception, monitors a Paging channel for CN paging using TMGI;
-	Performs neighbouring cell measurements and cell (re-)selection;
-	Performs measurements on L2 U2N Relay UEs and relay (re-)selection;
-	Acquires system information and can send SI request (if configured);
-	Performs logging of available measurements together with location and time for logged measurement configured UEs;
-	Performs idle/inactive measurements for idle/inactive measurement configured UEs;
-	If configured by upper layers for MBS broadcast reception, acquires MCCH change notification and MBS broadcast control information and data.
-	RRC_INACTIVE:
-	A UE specific DRX may be configured by upper layers or by RRC layer;
-	At lower layers, the UE may be configured with a DRX for PTM transmission of MBS broadcast and/or a DRX for PTM transmission of MBS multicast;
-	UE controlled mobility based on network configuration;
-	The UE stores the UE Inactive AS context;
-	A RAN-based notification area is configured by RRC layer;
-	Transfer of unicast data and/or signalling to/from UE over radio bearers configured for SDT.
-	The UE:
-	Monitors Short Messages transmitted with P-RNTI over DCI (see clause 6.5);
-	While T319a is running, monitors control channels associated with the shared data channel to determine if data is scheduled for it;
-	While SDT procedure is ongoing and T319a is not running, if CG-SDT is selected and if extended CG-SDT periodicity is configured (i.e. cg-SDT-PeriodicityExt is configured), monitors a Paging channel for CN paging using 5G-S-TMSI and RAN paging using fullI-RNTI except if the UE is acting as a L2 U2N Remote UE;
-	While SDT procedure is not ongoing, monitors a Paging channel for CN paging using 5G-S-TMSI and RAN paging using fullI-RNTI, except if the UE is acting as a L2 U2N Remote UE;
-	If configured by upper layers for MBS multicast reception, while SDT procedure is not ongoing, monitors a Paging channel for paging using TMGI;
-	Performs neighbouring cell measurements and cell (re-)selection;
-	Performs measurements on L2 U2N Relay UEs and relay (re-)selection;
-	Performs RAN-based notification area updates periodically and when moving outside the configured RAN-based notification area;
-	Acquires system information and, while SDT procedure is not ongoing, can send SI request (if configured);
-	While SDT procedure is not ongoing, performs logging of available measurements together with location and time for logged measurement configured UEs;
-	While SDT procedure is not ongoing, performs idle/inactive measurements for idle/inactive measurement configured UEs;
-	If configured by upper layers for MBS broadcast reception, acquires MCCH change notification and MBS broadcast control information and data;
-	If configured for MBS multicast reception in RRC_INACTIVE, acquires multicast MCCH change notification and MBS multicast control information and data;
-	Transmits SRS for Positioning.
-	RRC_CONNECTED:
-	The UE stores the AS context;
-	Transfer of unicast data to/from UE;
-	Transfer of MBS multicast data to UE;
-	At lower layers, the UE may be configured with a UE specific DRX;
-	At lower layers, the UE may be configured with a DRX for PTM transmission of MBS broadcast and/or a DRX for MBS multicast;
-	At lower layers, the UE may be configured with a cell specific cell DTX/DRX;
-	For UEs supporting CA, use of one or more SCells, aggregated with the SpCell, for increased bandwidth;
-	For UEs supporting DC, use of one SCG, aggregated with the MCG, for increased bandwidth;
-	Network controlled mobility within NR, to/from E-UTRA, and to UTRA-FDD;
-	Network controlled mobility (path switch) between a serving cell and a L2 U2N Relay UE, or vice versa, or between a source L2 U2N Relay UE and a target L2 U2N Relay UE;
-	Network controlled MP operation.
-	The UE:
-	Monitors Short Messages transmitted with P-RNTI over DCI (see clause 6.5), if configured;
-	Monitors control channels associated with the shared data channel to determine if data is scheduled for it;
-	Provides channel quality and feedback information;
-	Performs neighbouring cell and/or L2 U2N relay measurements and measurement reporting;
-	Acquires system information;
-	Performs immediate MDT measurement together with available location reporting;
-	If configured by upper layers for MBS broadcast reception, acquires MCCH change notification and MBS broadcast control information and data.
Figure 4.2.1-1 illustrates an overview of UE RRC state machine and state transitions in NR. A UE has only one RRC state in NR at one time.

Figure 4.2.1-1:	UE state machine and state transitions in NR
Figure 4.2.1-2 illustrates an overview of UE state machine and state transitions in NR as well as the mobility procedures supported between NR/5GC, E-UTRA/EPC and E-UTRA/5GC.

Figure 4.2.1-2:	UE state machine and state transitions between NR/5GC, E-UTRA/EPC and E-UTRA/5GC
Figure 4.2.1-3 illustrates the mobility procedure supported between NR/5GC and UTRA-FDD.

Figure 4.2.1-3:	Mobility procedure supported between NR/5GC and UTRA-FDD

4.2.2	Signalling radio bearers
"Signalling Radio Bearers" (SRBs) are defined as Radio Bearers (RBs) that are used only for the transmission of RRC and NAS messages. More specifically, the following SRBs are defined:
-	SRB0 is for RRC messages using the CCCH logical channel (except SRB0 of L2 U2N Remote UE);
-	SRB1 is for RRC messages (which may include a piggybacked NAS message) as well as for NAS messages prior to the establishment of SRB2, all using DCCH logical channel (except SRB1 of L2 U2N Remote UE);
-	SRB2 is for NAS messages and for RRC messages which include logged measurement information, all using DCCH logical channel (except SRB2 of L2 U2N Remote UE). SRB2 has a lower priority than SRB1 and may be configured by the network after AS security activation;
-	SRB3 is for specific RRC messages when UE is in (NG)EN-DC or NR-DC, all using DCCH logical channel;
-	SRB4 is for RRC messages which include application layer measurement report information, all using DCCH logical channel. SRB4 has a lower priority than SRB1 and can only be configured by the network after AS security activation.
-	SRB5 is for RRC messages which include application layer measurement report information, all using DCCH logical channel. SRB5 has a lower priority than SRB1 and SRB3 and can only be configured by the SN serving the SCG when the UE is in NR-DC, after AS security activation.
In downlink, piggybacking of NAS messages is used only for one dependant (i.e. with joint success/failure) procedure: bearer establishment/modification/release. In uplink piggybacking of NAS message is used only for transferring the initial NAS message during connection setup and connection resume.
NOTE 1:	The NAS messages transferred via SRB2 are also contained in RRC messages, which however do not include any RRC protocol control information.
Once AS security is activated, all RRC messages on SRB1, SRB2, SRB3, SRB4 and SRB5, including those containing NAS messages, are integrity protected and ciphered by PDCP. NAS independently applies integrity protection and ciphering to the NAS messages, see TS 24.501 [23].
Split SRB is supported for all the MR-DC options as well as MP in both SRB1 and SRB2 (split SRB is not supported for SRB0, SRB3, SRB4 and SRB5).
For operation with shared spectrum channel access in FR1, SRB0, SRB1 and SRB3 are assigned with the highest priority Channel Access Priority Class (CAPC), (i.e. CAPC = 1) while CAPC for SRB2 is configurable.
For the NR sidelink L2 U2N relay operations not involved in MP, SRB0, SRB1, SRB2 of a L2 U2N Remote UE are not using Uu CCCH/DCCH logical channels. The SRB0, SRB1, SRB2 of a L2 U2N Remote UE are transmitted via the PC5 Relay RLC channels over PC5 and Uu Relay RLC channels over Uu.
4.3	Services
4.3.1	Services provided to upper layers
The RRC protocol offers the following services to upper layers:
-	Broadcast of common control information;
-	Notification of UEs in RRC_IDLE, e.g. about a mobile terminating call;
-	Notification of UEs about ETWS and/or CMAS;
-	Transfer of dedicated signalling;
-	Broadcast of positioning assistance data;
-	Transfer of application layer measurement configuration and reporting.
4.3.2	Services expected from lower layers
In brief, the following are the main services that RRC expects from lower layers:
-	Integrity protection, ciphering and loss-less in-sequence delivery of information without duplication;
4.4	Functions
The RRC protocol includes the following main functions:
-	Broadcast of system information:
-	Including NAS common information;
-	Information applicable for UEs in RRC_IDLE and RRC_INACTIVE (e.g. cell (re-)selection parameters, neighbouring cell information) and information (also) applicable for UEs in RRC_CONNECTED (e.g. common channel configuration information);
-	Including ETWS notification, CMAS notification;
-	Including positioning assistance data.
-	RRC connection control:
-	Paging;
-	Establishment/modification/suspension/resumption/release of RRC connection, including e.g. assignment/modification of UE identity (C-RNTI, fullI-RNTI, etc.), establishment/modification/suspension/resumption/release of SRBs (except for SRB0);
-	Access barring;
-	Initial AS security activation, i.e. initial configuration of AS integrity protection (SRBs, DRBs) and AS ciphering (SRBs, DRBs);
-	RRC connection mobility including e.g. intra-frequency and inter-frequency handover, path switch from a PCell to a target L2 U2N Relay UE or from a L2 U2N Relay UE to a target PCell or from a source L2 U2N Relay UE to a target L2 U2N Relay UE, associated AS security handling, i.e. key/algorithm change, specification of RRC context information transferred between network nodes;
-	Establishment/modification/suspension/resumption/release of RBs carrying user data (DRBs/MRBs);
-	Radio configuration control including e.g. assignment/modification of ARQ configuration, HARQ configuration, DRX configuration;
-	In case of DC, cell management including e.g. change of PSCell, addition/modification/release of SCG cell(s);
-	In case of CA, cell management including e.g. addition/modification/release of SCell(s);
-	In case of MP, path management including e.g. addition/modification/release of indirect path;
-	QoS control including assignment/ modification of semi-persistent scheduling (SPS) configuration and configured grant configuration for DL and UL respectively, assignment/ modification of parameters for UL rate control in the UE, i.e. allocation of a priority and a prioritised bit rate (PBR) for each RB of UE and logical channel of IAB-MT.
-	Recovery from radio link failure.
-	Inter-RAT mobility including e.g. AS security activation, transfer of RRC context information;
-	Measurement configuration and reporting:
-	Establishment/modification/release of measurement configuration (e.g. intra-frequency, inter-frequency and inter- RAT measurements);
-	Setup and release of measurement gaps;
-	Measurement reporting.
-	Configuration of BAP entity and BH RLC channels for the support of IAB-node.
-	Configuration of SRAP entity and Uu/PC5 Relay RLC channels for the support of L2 U2N relay.
-	Configuration of SRAP entity and PC5 Relay RLC channels for the support of L2 U2U relay operation.
-	Other functions including e.g. generic protocol error handling, transfer of dedicated NAS information, transfer of UE radio access capability information.
-	Support of self-configuration and self-optimisation.
-	Support of measurement logging and reporting for network performance optimisation, as specified in TS 37.320 [61];
-	Support of transfer of application layer measurement configuration and reporting.
-	Configuration of side control information for NCR-node.
5	Procedures
5.1	General
5.1.1	Introduction
This clause covers the general requirements.
5.1.2	General requirements
The UE shall:
1>	process the received messages in order of reception by RRC, i.e. the processing of a message shall be completed before starting the processing of a subsequent message;
NOTE:	Network may initiate a subsequent procedure prior to receiving the UE's response of a previously initiated procedure.
1>	within a clause execute the steps according to the order specified in the procedural description;
1>	consider the term 'radio bearer' (RB) to cover SRBs, DRBs and MRBs unless explicitly stated otherwise;
1>	set the rrc-TransactionIdentifier in the response message, if included, to the same value as included in the message received from the network that triggered the response message;
1>	upon receiving a choice value set to setup:
2>	apply the corresponding received configuration and start using the associated resources, unless explicitly specified otherwise;
1>	upon receiving a choice value set to release:
2>	clear the corresponding configuration and stop using the associated resources;
1>	in case the size of a list is extended, upon receiving an extension field comprising the entries in addition to the ones carried by the original field (regardless of whether the network signals more entries in total); apply the following generic behaviour unless explicitly stated otherwise:
2>	create a combined list by concatenating the additional entries included in the extension field to the original field while maintaining the order among both the original and the additional entries;
2>	for the combined list, created according to the previous, apply the same behaviour as defined for the original field.
5.1.3	Requirements for UE in MR-DC
In this specification, the UE considers itself to be in:
-	EN-DC, if and only if it is configured with nr-SecondaryCellGroupConfig according to TS 36.331[10], and it is connected to EPC,
-	NGEN-DC, if and only if it is configured with nr-SecondaryCellGroupConfig according to TS 36.331[10], and it is connected to 5GC,
-	NE-DC, if and only if it is configured with mrdc-SecondaryCellGroup set to eutra-SCG,
-	NR-DC, if and only if it is configured with mrdc-SecondaryCellGroup set to nr-SCG,
-	MR-DC, if and only if it is in (NG)EN-DC, NE-DC or NR-DC.
NOTE:	This use of these terms deviates from the definition in TS 37.340 [41] and other specifications. In TS 37.340, these terms include also the case where the UE is configured with E-UTRA or NR MCG only (i.e. no NR or E-UTRA SCG) but with one or more bearers terminated in a secondary node (i.e. using NR PDCP).
The UE in (NG)EN-DC only executes a subclause of clause 5 in this specification when the subclause:
-	is referred to from a subclause under execution, either in this specification or in TS 36.331 [10]; or
-	applies to a message received on SRB3 (if SRB3 is established); or
-	applies to field(s), IE(s), UE variable(s) or timer(s) in this specification that the UE is configured with.
When executing a subclause of clause 5 in this specification, the UE follows the requirements in clause 5.1.2 and in all subclauses of this specification applicable to the messages (including processing time requirements), fields, IEs, timers and UE variables indicated in the subclause under execution.
5.2	System information
5.2.1	Introduction
System Information (SI) is divided into the MIB and a number of SIBs and posSIBs where:
-	the MIB is always transmitted on the BCH with a periodicity of 80 ms and repetitions made within 80 ms (TS 38.212 [17], clause 7.1) and it includes parameters that are needed to acquire SIB1 from the cell. The first transmission of the MIB is scheduled in subframes as defined in TS 38.213 [13], clause 4.1 and repetitions are scheduled according to the period of SSB;
NOTE 1:	If the period of SSB is larger than 80 ms, the MIB is transmitted with the same periodicity as that of SSB.
-	the SIB1 is transmitted on the DL-SCH with a periodicity of 160 ms and variable transmission repetition periodicity within 160 ms as specified in TS 38.213 [13], clause 13. The default transmission repetition periodicity of SIB1 is 20 ms but the actual transmission repetition periodicity is up to network implementation. For SSB and CORESET multiplexing pattern 1, SIB1 repetition transmission period is 20 ms. For SSB and CORESET multiplexing pattern 2/3, SIB1 transmission repetition period is the same as the SSB period (TS 38.213 [13], clause 13). SIB1 includes information regarding the availability and scheduling (e.g. mapping of SIBs to SI message, periodicity, SI-window size) of other SIBs with an indication whether one or more SIBs are only provided on-demand and, in that case, the configuration needed by the UE to perform the SI request. SIB1 is cell-specific SIB;
-	SIBs other than SIB1 and posSIBs are carried in SystemInformation (SI) messages, which are transmitted on the DL-SCH. Only SIBs or posSIBs having the same periodicity can be mapped to the same SI message. SIBs and posSIBs are mapped to different SI messages, i.e. an SI message contains either only SIBs or only posSIBs. Each SI message is transmitted within periodically occurring time domain windows (referred to as SI-windows with same length for all SI messages). Each SI message is associated with an SI-window and the SI-windows of different SI messages do not overlap. That is, within one SI-window only the corresponding SI message is transmitted. An SI message may be repeated with the same content a number of times within the SI-window. Any SIB or posSIB except SIB1 can be configured to be cell specific or area specific, using an indication in SIB1. The cell specific SIB is applicable only within a cell that provides the SIB while the area specific SIB is applicable within an area referred to as SI area, which consists of one or several cells and is identified by systemInformationAreaID;
-	The mapping of SIBs to SI messages is configured in schedulingInfoList and schedulingInfoList2, while the mapping of posSIBs to SI messages is configured in posSchedulingInfoList and schedulingInfoList2. Each SIB and each posSIB is mapped to a single SI message. posSIBs of the same posSibType carrying GNSS Generic Assistance Data for different GNSS/SBAS (identified by gnss-id/sbas-id, see TS 37.355 [49]) are mapped to different SI messages. Each SIB and posSIB is contained at most once in an SI message. For SIBs and posSIBs with segments, the segments contained in SI messages are transmitted according to the SI message periodicity, with one segment of a particular sibType/posSibType in each SI message;
-	For a UE in RRC_CONNECTED, the network can provide system information through dedicated signalling using the RRCReconfiguration message, e.g. if the UE has an active BWP with no common search space configured to monitor system information, paging, or upon request from the UE.
-	For PSCell and SCells, the network provides the required SI by dedicated signalling, i.e. within an RRCReconfiguration message. Nevertheless, the UE shall acquire MIB of the PSCell to get SFN timing of the SCG (which may be different from MCG). Upon change of relevant SI for SCell, the network releases and adds the concerned SCell. For PSCell, the required SI can only be changed with Reconfiguration with Sync.
NOTE 2:	The physical layer imposes a limit to the maximum size a SIB can take. The maximum SIB1 or SI message size is 2976 bits.
5.2.2	System information acquisition
5.2.2.1	General UE requirements

Figure 5.2.2.1-1: System information acquisition
The UE applies the SI acquisition procedure to acquire the AS, NAS- and positioning assistance data information. The procedure applies to UEs in RRC_IDLE, in RRC_INACTIVE and in RRC_CONNECTED.
The UE in RRC_IDLE and RRC_INACTIVE shall ensure having a valid version of (at least) the MIB, SIB1 through SIB4, SIB5 (if the UE supports E-UTRA), SIB11 (if the UE is configured for idle/inactive measurements), SIB12 (if UE is capable of NR sidelink communication/discovery and is configured by upper layers to receive or transmit NR sidelink communication/discovery), and SIB13, SIB14 (if UE is capable of V2X sidelink communication and is configured by upper layers to receive or transmit V2X sidelink communication), SIB15 (if UE is configured by upper layers to report disaster roaming related information), SIB16 (if the UE is capable of slice-based cell reselection and the UE receives NSAG information for cell reselection from upper layer), SIB17 or SIB17bis (if the UE is using TRS resources for power saving in RRC_IDLE and RRC_INACTIVE), SIB19 (if UE is accessing NR via NTN access), SIB22 (for ATG access), and SIB23 (if UE is capable of NR sidelink positioning and is configured by upper layers to receive or transmit SL-PRS).
The UE capable of MBS broadcast which is receiving or interested to receive MBS broadcast service(s) via a broadcast MRB shall ensure having a valid version of SIB20, regardless of the RRC state the UE is in.
The UE shall ensure having a valid version of the posSIB requested by upper layers.
5.2.2.2	SIB validity and need to (re)-acquire SIB
5.2.2.2.1	SIB validity
The UE shall apply the SI acquisition procedure as defined in clause 5.2.2.3 upon cell selection (e.g. upon power on), cell-reselection, return from out of coverage, after reconfiguration with sync completion, after entering the network from another RAT, upon receiving an indication that the system information has changed, upon receiving a PWS notification, upon receiving request (e.g., a positioning request) from upper layers; and whenever the UE does not have a valid version of a stored SIB or posSIB or a valid version of a requested SIB.
When the UE acquires a MIB or a SIB1 or an SI message in a serving cell as described in clause 5.2.2.3, and if the UE stores the acquired SIB, then the UE shall store the associated areaScope, if present, the first PLMN-Identity in the PLMN-IdentityInfoList for non-NPN-only cells or the first NPN identity (SNPN identity in case of SNPN, or PNI-NPN identity in case of PNI-NPN) in the NPN-IdentityInfoList for NPN-only cells, the cellIdentity, the systemInformationAreaID, if present, and the valueTag, if present, as indicated in the si-SchedulingInfo for the SIB. If the UE stores the acquired posSIB, then the UE shall store the associated areaScope, if present, the cellIdentity, the systemInformationAreaID, if present, the valueTag, if provided in assistanceDataSIB-Element, and the expirationTime if provided in assistanceDataSIB-Element. The UE may use a valid stored version of the SI except MIB, SIB1, SIB6, SIB7 or SIB8 e.g. after cell re-selection, upon return from out of coverage or after the reception of SI change indication. The valueTag and expirationTime for posSIB is optionally provided in assistanceDataSIB-Element, as specified in TS 37.355 [49].
A L2 U2N Remote UE in RRC_IDLE or RRC_INACTIVE can inform the interested SIB(s) to the connected L2 U2N Relay UE as defined in clause 5.8.9.8.2 and receive the SIB(s) from the L2 U2N Relay UE as defined in clause 5.8.9.9.3. A L2 U2N Remote UE in RRC_CONNECTED receives SIB1 and other SIB(s) in RRCReconfiguration message and performs on-demand SI request if required, as defined in clause 5.2.2.3.5 and 5.2.2.3.6. The L2 U2N Remote UE in RRC_IDLE or RRC_INACTIVE or RRC_CONNECTED (when MP is not configured) is not required to obtain SI over Uu interface, but it may decide to perform the SI acquisition procedure over Uu interface as defined in clause 5.2.2.3 by UE implementation.
NOTE:	The storage and management of the stored SIBs in addition to the SIBs valid for the current serving cell is left to UE implementation.
The UE shall:
1>	delete any stored version of a SIB after 3 hours from the moment it was successfully confirmed as valid;
1>	for each stored version of a SIB:
2>	if the areaScope is associated and its value for the stored version of the SIB is the same as the value received in the si-SchedulingInfo for that SIB from the serving cell:
3>	if the UE is NPN capable and the cell is an NPN-only cell:
4>	if the first NPN identity included in the NPN-IdentityInfoList, the systemInformationAreaID and the valueTag that are included in the si-SchedulingInfo for the SIB received from the serving cell are identical to the NPN identity, the systemInformationAreaID and the valueTag associated with the stored version of that SIB:
5>	consider the stored SIB as valid for the cell;
3>	else if the first PLMN-Identity included in the PLMN-IdentityInfoList, the systemInformationAreaID and the valueTag that are included in the si-SchedulingInfo for the SIB received from the serving cell are identical to the PLMN-Identity, the systemInformationAreaID and the valueTag associated with the stored version of that SIB:
4>	consider the stored SIB as valid for the cell;
2>	if the areaScope is not present for the stored version of the SIB and the areaScope value is not included in the si-SchedulingInfo for that SIB from the serving cell:
3>	if the UE is NPN capable and the cell is an NPN-only cell:
4>	if the first NPN identity in the NPN-IdentityInfoList, the cellIdentity and valueTag that are included in the si-SchedulingInfo for the SIB received from the serving cell are identical to the NPN identity, the cellIdentity and the valueTag associated with the stored version of that SIB:
5>	consider the stored SIB as valid for the cell;
3>	else if the first PLMN-Identity in the PLMN-IdentityInfoList, the cellIdentity and valueTag that are included in the si-SchedulingInfo for the SIB received from the serving cell are identical to the PLMN-Identity, the cellIdentity and the valueTag associated with the stored version of that SIB:
4>	consider the stored SIB as valid for the cell;
1>	for each stored version of a posSIB:
2>	if the areaScope is associated and its value for the stored version of the posSIB is the same as the value received in the posSIB-MappingInfo for that posSIB from the serving cell and the systemInformationAreaID included in the si-SchedulingInfo is identical to the systemInformationAreaID associated with the stored version of that posSIB:
3>	if the valueTag (see TS 37.355 [49]) for the posSIB received from the serving cell is identical to the valueTag associated with the stored version of that posSIB; or if the expirationTime (see TS 37.355 [49]) associated with the stored posSIB has not been expired:
4>	consider the stored posSIB as valid for the cell;
2>	if the areaScope is not present for the stored version of the posSIB and the areaScope value is not included in the posSIB-MappingInfo for that posSIB from the serving cell and the cellIdentity for the posSIB received from the serving cell is identical to the cellIdentity associated with the stored version of that posSIB:
3>	if the valueTag (see TS 37.355 [49]) for the posSIB received from the serving cell is identical to the valueTag associated with the stored version of that posSIB; or if the expirationTime (see TS 37.355 [49]) associated with the stored posSIB has not been expired:
4>	consider the stored posSIB as valid for the cell;
5.2.2.2.2	SI change indication and PWS notification
A modification period is used, i.e. updated SI message (other than SI message for ETWS, CMAS, positioning assistance data, and some NTN-specific information as specified in the field descriptions) is broadcasted in the modification period following the one where SI change indication is transmitted. The modification period boundaries are defined by SFN values for which SFN mod m = 0, where m is the number of radio frames comprising the modification period. The modification period is configured by system information. If H-SFN is provided in SIB1, and UE is configured with eDRX, modification period boundaries are defined by SFN values for which (H-SFN * 1024 + SFN) mod m = 0.
For UEs in RRC_IDLE or RRC_INACTIVE configured to use an IDLE eDRX cycle longer than the modification period, an eDRX acquisition period is defined. The boundaries of the eDRX acquisition period are determined by H-SFN values for which H-SFN mod 1024 = 0.
The UE receives indications about SI modifications and/or PWS notifications using Short Message transmitted with P-RNTI over DCI (see clause 6.5). Repetitions of SI change indication may occur within preceding modification period or within preceding eDRX acquisition period. SI change indication is not applicable for SI messages containing posSIBs.
UEs in RRC_IDLE or in RRC_INACTIVE while SDT procedure is not ongoing shall monitor for SI change indication in its own paging occasion(s) that the UE monitors as specified in TS 38.304 [20]. UEs in RRC_CONNECTED shall monitor for SI change indication in any paging occasion at least once per modification period if the UE is provided with common search space, including pagingSearchSpace, searchSpaceSIB1 and searchSpaceOtherSystemInformation, on the active BWP to monitor paging, as specified in TS 38.213 [13], clause 13.
For UEs in RRC_INACTIVE while SDT procedure is ongoing:
-	if T319a is not running and if CG-SDT is selected and if extended CG-SDT periodicity is configured (i.e. cg-SDT-PeriodicityExt is configured), the UE shall monitor for SI change indication in its own paging occasion(s) that the UE monitors as specified in TS 38.304 [20];
-	in other cases, the UE shall monitor for SI change indication in any paging occasion at least once per modification period, if the initial downlink BWP on which the SDT procedure is ongoing is associated with a CD-SSB.
During a modification period where ETWS or CMAS transmission is started or stopped, the SI messages carrying the posSIBs scheduled in posSchedulingInfoList may change, so the UE might not be able to successfully receive those posSIBs in the remainder of the current modification period and next modification period according to the scheduling information received prior to the change.
ETWS or CMAS capable UEs in RRC_IDLE or in RRC_INACTIVE while SDT procedure is not ongoing shall monitor for indications about PWS notification in its own paging occasion(s) that the UE monitors as specified in TS 38.304 [20]. ETWS or CMAS capable UEs in RRC_CONNECTED shall monitor for indication about PWS notification in any paging occasion at least once every defaultPagingCycle if the UE is provided with common search space, including pagingSearchSpace, searchSpaceSIB1 and searchSpaceOtherSystemInformation, on the active BWP to monitor paging.
For ETWS or CMAS capable UEs in RRC_INACTIVE while SDT procedure is ongoing: :
-	if T319a is not running and if CG-SDT is selected and if extended CG-SDT periodicity is configured (i.e. cg-SDT-PeriodicityExt is configured), the UE shall monitor for indications about PWS notification in its own paging occasion(s) that the UE monitors as specified in TS 38.304 [20];
-	in other cases, the UE shall monitor for indication about PWS notification in any paging occasion at least once every defaultPagingCycle, if the initial downlink BWP on which the SDT procedure is ongoing is associated with a CD-SSB.
For Short Message reception in a paging occasion, the UE monitors the PDCCH monitoring occasion(s) for paging as specified in TS 38.304 [20] and TS 38.213 [13].
A L2 U2N Remote UE is not required to monitor paging occasion for SI modifications and/or PWS notifications. It obtains the updated system information and SIB6/7/8 from the connected L2 U2N Relay UE as defined in clause 5.8.9.9.3.
If the UE receives a Short Message, the UE shall:
1>	if the UE is ETWS capable or CMAS capable, the etwsAndCmasIndication bit of Short Message is set, and the UE is provided with searchSpaceSIB1 and searchSpaceOtherSystemInformation on the active BWP or the initial BWP:
2> immediately re-acquire the SIB1;
2>	if the UE is ETWS capable and si-SchedulingInfo includes scheduling information for SIB6:
3>	acquire SIB6, as specified in clause 5.2.2.3.2, immediately;
2>	if the UE is ETWS capable and si-SchedulingInfo includes scheduling information for SIB7:
3>	acquire SIB7, as specified in clause 5.2.2.3.2, immediately;
2>	if the UE is CMAS capable and si-SchedulingInfo includes scheduling information for SIB8:
3>	acquire SIB8, as specified in clause 5.2.2.3.2, immediately;
NOTE:	In case SIB1, SIB6, SIB7, or SIB8 overlap with a measurement gap it is left to UE implementation how to immediately acquire SIB1, SIB6, SIB7, or SIB8.
1>	if the UE does not operate an IDLE eDRX cycle longer than the modification period and the systemInfoModification bit of Short Message is set:
2>	apply the SI acquisition procedure as defined in clause 5.2.2.3 from the start of the next modification period;
1>	if the UE operates an IDLE eDRX cycle longer than the modification period and the systemInfoModification-eDRX bit of Short Message is set:
2>	apply the SI acquisition procedure as defined in clause 5.2.2.3 from the start of the next eDRX acquisition period boundary.

5.2.2.3	Acquisition of System Information
5.2.2.3.1	Acquisition of MIB and SIB1
The UE shall:
1>	apply the specified BCCH configuration defined in 9.1.1.1;
1>	if the UE is in RRC_IDLE or in RRC_INACTIVE; or
1>	if the UE is in RRC_CONNECTED while T311 is running:
2>	acquire the MIB, which is scheduled as specified in TS 38.213 [13];
2>	if the UE is unable to acquire the MIB;
3>	perform the actions as specified in clause 5.2.2.5;
2>	else:
3>	perform the actions specified in clause 5.2.2.4.1.
1>	if the UE is in RRC_CONNECTED with an active BWP with common search space configured by searchSpaceSIB1 and pagingSearchSpace and has received an indication about change of system information; or
1>	if the UE is in RRC_CONNECTED with an active BWP with common search space configured by searchSpaceSIB1 and the UE has not stored a valid version of a SIB or posSIB, in accordance with clause 5.2.2.2.1, of one or several required SIB(s) or posSIB(s) in accordance with clause 5.2.2.1, and, UE has not acquired SIB1 in current modification period; or
1> if the UE is in RRC_CONNECTED with an active BWP with common search space configured by searchSpaceSIB1, and, the UE has not stored a valid version of a SIB or posSIB, in accordance with clause 5.2.2.2.1, of one or several required SIB(s) or posSIB(s) in accordance with clause 5.2.2.1, and, si-BroadcastStatus for the required SIB(s) or posSI-BroadcastStatus for the required posSIB(s) is set to notBroadcasting in acquired SIB1 in current modification period; or
1>	if the UE is in RRC_IDLE or in RRC_INACTIVE; or
1>	if the UE is in RRC_CONNECTED while T311 is running:
2>	if ssb-SubcarrierOffset indicates SIB1 is transmitted in the cell (TS 38.213 [13]) and if SIB1 acquisition is required for the UE:
3>	acquire the SIB1, which is scheduled as specified in TS 38.213 [13];
3>	if the UE is unable to acquire the SIB1:
4>	perform the actions as specified in clause 5.2.2.5;
3>	else:
4>	upon acquiring SIB1, perform the actions specified in clause 5.2.2.4.2.
2>	else if SIB1 acquisition is required for the UE and ssb-SubcarrierOffset indicates that SIB1 is not scheduled in the cell:
3>	perform the actions as specified in clause 5.2.2.5.
NOTE 1:	The UE in RRC_CONNECTED is only required to acquire broadcasted SIB1 if the UE can acquire it without disrupting unicast or MBS multicast data reception, i.e., the broadcast and unicast/MBS multicast beams are quasi co-located. The UE in RRC_INACTIVE state while T319a is running, is only required to acquire broadcasted SIB1 and MIB if the UE can acquire them without disrupting unicast data reception, i.e. the broadcast and unicast beams are quasi co-located.
NOTE 2:	UE in RRC_INACTIVE that does not support inactiveStateNTN-r17 enters RRC_IDLE upon cell reselection between TN cell and NTN cell, and initiates the NAS signalling connection recovery (see TS 24.501 [23]).
5.2.2.3.2	Acquisition of an SI message
For SI message acquisition PDCCH monitoring occasion(s) are determined according to searchSpaceOtherSystemInformation. If searchSpaceOtherSystemInformation is set to zero, PDCCH monitoring occasions for SI message reception in SI-window are same as PDCCH monitoring occasions for SIB1 where the mapping between PDCCH monitoring occasions and SSBs is specified in TS 38.213[13]. If searchSpaceOtherSystemInformation is not set to zero, PDCCH monitoring occasions for SI message are determined based on search space indicated by searchSpaceOtherSystemInformation. PDCCH monitoring occasions for SI message which are not overlapping with UL symbols (determined according to tdd-UL-DL-ConfigurationCommon) are sequentially numbered from one in the SI window. The [x×N+K]th PDCCH monitoring occasion (s) for SI message in SI-window corresponds to the Kth transmitted SSB, where x = 0, 1, ...X-1, K = 1, 2, …N, N is the number of actual transmitted SSBs determined according to ssb-PositionsInBurst in SIB1 and X is equal to CEIL(number of PDCCH monitoring occasions in SI-window/N). The actual transmitted SSBs are sequentially numbered from one in ascending order of their SSB indexes. The UE assumes that, in the SI window, PDCCH for an SI message is transmitted in at least one PDCCH monitoring occasion corresponding to each transmitted SSB and thus the selection of SSB for the reception SI messages is up to UE implementation.
When acquiring an SI message, the UE shall:
1>	determine the start of the SI-window for the concerned SI message as follows:
2>	if the concerned SI message is configured in the schedulingInfoList:
3>	for the concerned SI message, determine the number n which corresponds to the order of entry in the list of SI messages configured by schedulingInfoList in si-SchedulingInfo in SIB1;
3>	determine the integer value x = (n – 1) × w, where w is the si-WindowLength;
3>	the SI-window starts at the slot #a, where a = x mod N, in the radio frame for which SFN mod T = FLOOR(x/N), where T is the si-Periodicity of the concerned SI message and N is the number of slots in a radio frame as specified in TS 38.211 [16];
2>	else if the concerned SI message is configured in the schedulingInfoList2;
3>	determine the integer value x = (si-WindowPosition -1) × w, where w is the si-WindowLength;
3>	the SI-window starts at the slot #a, where a = x mod N, in the radio frame for which SFN mod T = FLOOR(x/N), where T is the si-Periodicity of the concerned SI message and N is the number of slots in a radio frame as specified in TS 38.211 [16];
2>	else if the concerned SI message is configured in the posSchedulingInfoList and offsetToSI-Used is not configured:
3>	create a concatenated list of SI messages by appending the posSchedulingInfoList in posSI-SchedulingInfo in SIB1 to schedulingInfoList in si-SchedulingInfo in SIB1;
3>	for the concerned SI message, determine the number n which corresponds to the order of entry in the concatenated list;
3>	determine the integer value x = (n – 1) × w, where w is the si-WindowLength;
3>	the SI-window starts at the slot #a, where a = x mod N, in the radio frame for which SFN mod T = FLOOR(x/N), where T is the posSI-Periodicity of the concerned SI message and N is the number of slots in a radio frame as specified in TS 38.211 [16];
2>	else if the concerned SI message is configured by the posSchedulingInfoList and offsetToSI-Used is configured:
3>	determine the number m which corresponds to the number of SI messages with an associated si-Periodicity of 8 radio frames (80 ms), configured by schedulingInfoList in SIB1;
3>	for the concerned SI message, determine the number n which corresponds to the order of entry in the list of SI messages configured by posSchedulingInfoList in SIB1;
3>	determine the integer value x = m × w + (n – 1) × w, where w is the si-WindowLength;
3>	the SI-window starts at the slot #a, where a = x mod N, in the radio frame for which SFN mod T = FLOOR(x/N) +8, where T is the posSI-Periodicity of the concerned SI message and N is the number of slots in a radio frame as specified in TS 38.211 [16];
1>	receive the PDCCH containing the scheduling RNTI, i.e. SI-RNTI in the PDCCH monitoring occasion(s) for SI message acquisition, from the start of the SI-window and continue until the end of the SI-window whose absolute length in time is given by si-WindowLength, or until the SI message was received;
1>	if the SI message was not received by the end of the SI-window, repeat reception at the next SI-window occasion for the concerned SI message in the current modification period;
1>	if all the SIB(s) and/or posSIB(s) requested in DedicatedSIBRequest message have been acquired:
2>	stop timer T350, if running;
NOTE 1:	The UE is only required to acquire broadcasted SI message if the UE can acquire it without disrupting unicast or MBS multicast data reception, i.e. the broadcast and unicast/MBS multicast beams are quasi co-located.
NOTE 2:	The UE is not required to monitor PDCCH monitoring occasion(s) corresponding to each transmitted SSB in SI-window.
NOTE 3:	If the concerned SI message was not received in the current modification period, handling of SI message acquisition is left to UE implementation.
NOTE 4:	A UE in RRC_CONNECTED may stop the PDCCH monitoring during the SI window for the concerned SI message when the requested SIB(s) are acquired.
NOTE 5:	A UE capable of NR sidelink communication/discovery and configured by upper layers to perform NR sidelink communication/discovery on a frequency, may acquire SIB12 or SystemInformationBlockType28 from a cell other than current serving cell (for RRC_INACTIVE or RRC_IDLE) or current PCell (for RRC_CONNECTED), if SIB12 of current serving cell (for RRC_INACTIVE or RRC_IDLE) or current PCell (for RRC_CONNECTED) does not provide configuration for NR sidelink communication/discovery for the frequency, and if the other cell providing configuration for NR sidelink communication/discovery for the frequency meets the S-criteria as defined in TS 38.304 [20] or TS 36.304 [27].
1>	perform the actions for the acquired SI message as specified in clause 5.2.2.4.
5.2.2.3.3	Request for on demand system information
The UE shall, while SDT procedure is not ongoing:
1>	if SIB1 includes si-SchedulingInfo containing si-RequestConfigSUL-MSG1-Repetition and criteria to select supplementary uplink as defined in TS 38.321[3], clause 5.1.1 and criteria to apply MSG1 repetition as defined in TS 38.321[3], clause 5.1.1e for the concerned si-RequestConfigSUL-MSG1-Repetition are met:
2>	trigger the lower layer to initiate the Random Access procedure on supplementary uplink in accordance with TS 38.321 [3] using the PRACH preamble(s) and PRACH resource(s) associated with the applicable MSG1 repetition number in si-RequestConfigSUL-MSG1-Repetition corresponding to the SI message(s) that the UE requires to operate within the cell, and for which si-BroadcastStatus is set to notBroadcasting;
2>	if acknowledgement for SI request is received from lower layers:
3>	acquire the requested SI message(s) as defined in clause 5.2.2.3.2, immediately;
1>	else if the UE is an (e)RedCap UE and if initialUplinkBWP-RedCap is configured in UplinkConfigCommonSIB and if SIB1 includes si-SchedulingInfo containing si-RequestConfigRedCap-MSG1-Repetition and criteria to select normal uplink as defined in TS 38.321[3], clause 5.1.1 and criteria to apply MSG1 repetition as defined in TS 38.321[3], clause 5.1.1e for the concerned si-RequestConfigRedCap-MSG1-Repetition are met:
2>	trigger the lower layer to initiate the Random Access procedure on normal uplink in accordance with TS 38.321 [3] using the PRACH preamble(s) and PRACH resource(s) associated with the applicable MSG1 repetition number in si-RequestConfigRedCap-MSG1-Repetition corresponding to the SI message(s) that the UE requires to operate within the cell, and for which si-BroadcastStatus is set to notBroadcasting;
2>	if acknowledgement for SI request is received from lower layers:
3>	acquire the requested SI message(s) as defined in clause 5.2.2.3.2, immediately;
1>	else if SIB1 includes si-SchedulingInfo containing si-RequestConfigSUL and criteria to select supplementary uplink as defined in TS 38.321[3], clause 5.1.1 is met:
2>	trigger the lower layer to initiate the Random Access procedure on supplementary uplink in accordance with TS 38.321 [3] using the PRACH preamble(s) and PRACH resource(s) in si-RequestConfigSUL corresponding to the SI message(s) that the UE requires to operate within the cell, and for which si-BroadcastStatus is set to notBroadcasting;
2>	if acknowledgement for SI request is received from lower layers:
3>	acquire the requested SI message(s) as defined in clause 5.2.2.3.2, immediately;
1>	else if the UE is an (e)RedCap UE and if initialUplinkBWP-RedCap is configured in UplinkConfigCommonSIB and if SIB1 includes si-SchedulingInfo containing si-RequestConfigRedCap and criteria to select normal uplink as defined in TS 38.321[3], clause 5.1.1 is met:
2>	trigger the lower layer to initiate the Random Access procedure on normal uplink in accordance with TS 38.321 [3] using the PRACH preamble(s) and PRACH resource(s) in si-RequestConfigRedcap corresponding to the SI message(s) that the UE requires to operate within the cell, and for which si-BroadcastStatus is set to notBroadcasting;
2>	if acknowledgement for SI request is received from lower layers:
3>	acquire the requested SI message(s) as defined in clause 5.2.2.3.2, immediately;
1>	else:
2>	if the UE is neither a RedCap nor an eRedCap UE and if SIB1 includes si-SchedulingInfo containing si-RequestConfigMSG1-Repetition and criteria to select normal uplink as defined in TS 38.321 [3], clause 5.1.1 and to apply MSG1 repetition as defined in TS 38.321[3], clause 5.1.1e for the concerned si-RequestConfigMSG1-Repetition are met; or
2>	if the UE is an (e)RedCap UE and if initialUplinkBWP-RedCap is not configured in UplinkConfigCommonSIB and if SIB1 includes si-SchedulingInfo containing si-RequestConfigMSG1-Repetition and criteria to select normal uplink as defined in TS 38.321 [3], clause 5.1.1 and to apply MSG1 repetition as defined in TS 38.321[3], clause 5.1.1e for the concerned si-RequestConfigMSG1-Repetition are met:
3>	trigger the lower layer to initiate the Random Access procedure on normal uplink in accordance with TS 38.321 [3] using the PRACH preamble(s) and PRACH resource(s) associated with the applicable MSG1 repetition number in si-RequestConfigMSG1-Repetition corresponding to the SI message(s) that the UE requires to operate within the cell, and for which si-BroadcastStatus is set to notBroadcasting;
3>	if acknowledgement for SI request is received from lower layers:
4>	acquire the requested SI message(s) as defined in clause 5.2.2.3.2, immediately;
2>	else if the UE is neither a RedCap nor an eRedCap UE and if SIB1 includes si-SchedulingInfo containing si-RequestConfig and criteria to select normal uplink as defined in TS 38.321[3], clause 5.1.1 is met; or
2>	if the UE is an (e)RedCap UE and if initialUplinkBWP-RedCap is not configured in UplinkConfigCommonSIB and if SIB1 includes si-SchedulingInfo containing si-RequestConfig and criteria to select normal uplink as defined in TS 38.321[3], clause 5.1.1 is met:
3>	trigger the lower layer to initiate the Random Access procedure on normal uplink in accordance with TS 38.321 [3] using the PRACH preamble(s) and PRACH resource(s) in si-RequestConfig corresponding to the SI message(s) that the UE requires to operate within the cell, and for which si-BroadcastStatus is set to notBroadcasting;
3>	if acknowledgement for SI request is received from lower layers:
4>	acquire the requested SI message(s) as defined in clause 5.2.2.3.2, immediately;
2>	else:
3>	apply the default L1 parameter values as specified in corresponding physical layer specifications except for the parameters for which values are provided in SIB1;
3>	apply the default MAC Cell Group configuration as specified in 9.2.2;
3>	apply the timeAlignmentTimerCommon included in SIB1;
3>	apply the CCCH configuration as specified in 9.1.1.2;
3>	initiate transmission of the RRCSystemInfoRequest message with rrcSystemInfoRequest in accordance with 5.2.2.3.4;
3>	if acknowledgement for RRCSystemInfoRequest message with rrcSystemInfoRequest is received from lower layers:
4>	acquire the requested SI message(s) as defined in clause 5.2.2.3.2, immediately;
1>	if cell reselection occurs while waiting for the acknowledgment for SI request from lower layers:
2>	reset MAC;
2>	if SI request is based on RRCSystemInfoRequest message with rrcSystemInfoRequest:
3>	release RLC entity for SRB0.
NOTE:	After RACH failure for SI request it is up to UE implementation when to retry the SI request.
5.2.2.3.3a	Request for on demand positioning system information
The UE shall, while SDT procedure is not ongoing:
1>	if SIB1 includes posSI-SchedulingInfo containing posSI-RequestConfigSUL-MSG1-Repetition and criteria to select supplementary uplink as defined in TS 38.321[3], clause 5.1.1 and criteria to apply MSG1 repetition as defined in TS 38.321[3], clause 5.1.1e for the concerned posSI-RequestConfigSUL-MSG1-Repetition are met:
2>	trigger the lower layer to initiate the Random Access procedure on supplementary uplink in accordance with TS 38.321 [3] using the PRACH preamble(s) and PRACH resource(s) associated with the applicable MSG1 repetition number in posSI-RequestConfigSUL-MSG1-Repetition corresponding to the SI message(s) that the UE upper layers require for positioning operations, and for which posSI-BroadcastStatus in posSchedulingInfoList in posSI-SchedulingInfo or si-BroadcastStatus of the type2 SIB configured by schedulingInfoList2 in si-SchedulingInfo-v1700, if present, is set to notBroadcasting;
2>	if acknowledgement for SI request is received from lower layers:
3>	acquire the requested SI message(s) as defined in clause 5.2.2.3.2, immediately;
1>	else if the UE is an (e)RedCap UE and if initialUplinkBWP-RedCap is configured in UplinkConfigCommonSIB and if SIB1 includes posSI-SchedulingInfo containing posSI-RequestConfigRedCap-MSG1-Repetition and criteria to select normal uplink as defined in TS 38.321[3], clause 5.1.1 and criteria to apply MSG1 repetition as defined in TS 38.321[3], clause 5.1.1e for the concerned posSI-RequestConfigRedCap-MSG1-Repetition are met:
2>	trigger the lower layer to initiate the Random Access procedure on normal uplink in accordance with TS 38.321 [3] using the PRACH preamble(s) and PRACH resource(s) associated with the applicable MSG1 repetition number in posSI-RequestConfigRedCap-MSG1-Repetition corresponding to the SI message(s) that the UE upper layers require for positioning operations, and for which posSI-BroadcastStatus in posSchedulingInfoList in posSI-SchedulingInfo or si-BroadcastStatus of the type2 SIB configured by schedulingInfoList2 in si-SchedulingInfo-v1700, if present, is set to notBroadcasting;
2>	if acknowledgement for SI request is received from lower layers:
3>	acquire the requested SI message(s) as defined in clause 5.2.2.3.2, immediately;
1>	else if SIB1 includes posSI-SchedulingInfo containing posSI-RequestConfigSUL and criteria to select supplementary uplink as defined in TS 38.321[3], clause 5.1.1 is met:
2>	trigger the lower layer to initiate the Random Access procedure on supplementary uplink in accordance with TS 38.321 [3] using the PRACH preamble(s) and PRACH resource(s) in posSI-RequestConfigSUL corresponding to the SI message(s) that the UE upper layers require for positioning operations, and for which posSI-BroadcastStatus in posSchedulingInfoList in posSI-SchedulingInfo or si-BroadcastStatus of the type2 SIB configured by schedulingInfoList2 in si-SchedulingInfo-v1700, if present, is set to notBroadcasting;
2>	if acknowledgement for SI request is received from lower layers:
3>	acquire the requested SI message(s) as defined in clause 5.2.2.3.2, immediately;
1>	else if the UE is an (e)RedCap UE and if initialUplinkBWP-RedCap is configured in UplinkConfigCommonSIB and if SIB1 includes posSI-SchedulingInfo containing posSI-RequestConfigRedCap and criteria to select normal uplink as defined in TS 38.321[3], clause 5.1.1 is met:
2>	trigger the lower layer to initiate the Random Access procedure on normal uplink in accordance with TS 38.321 [3] using the PRACH preamble(s) and PRACH resource(s) in posSI-RequestConfigRedCap corresponding to the SI message(s) that the UE upper layers require for positioning operations, and for which posSI-BroadcastStatus in posSchedulingInfoList in posSI-SchedulingInfo or si-BroadcastStatus of the type2 SIB configured by schedulingInfoList2 in si-SchedulingInfo-v1700, if present, is set to notBroadcasting;
2>	if acknowledgement for SI request is received from lower layers:
3>	acquire the requested SI message(s) as defined in clause 5.2.2.3.2, immediately;
1>	else:
2>	if the UE is neither a RedCap nor an eRedCap UE and if SIB1 includes posSI-SchedulingInfo containing posSI-RequestConfigMSG1-Repetition and criteria to select normal uplink as defined in TS 38.321 [3], clause 5.1.1 and to apply MSG1 repetition as defined in TS 38.321[3], clause 5.1.1e for the concerned posSI-RequestConfigMSG1-Repetition are met; or
2>	if the UE is an (e)RedCap UE and if initialUplinkBWP-RedCap is not configured in UplinkConfigCommonSIB and if SIB1 includes posSI-SchedulingInfo containing posSI-RequestConfigMSG1-Repetition and criteria to select normal uplink as defined in TS 38.321 [3], clause 5.1.1, and to apply MSG1 repetition as defined in TS 38.321[3], clause 5.1.1e for the concerned posSI-RequestConfigMSG1-Repetition are met:
3>	trigger the lower layer to initiate the Random Access procedure on normal uplink in accordance with TS 38.321 [3] using the PRACH preamble(s) and PRACH resource(s) associated with the applicable MSG1 repetition number in posSI-RequestConfigMSG1-Repetition corresponding to the SI message(s) that the UE upper layers require for positioning operations, and for which posSI-BroadcastStatus in posSchedulingInfoList in posSI-SchedulingInfo or si-BroadcastStatus of the type2 SIB configured by schedulingInfoList2 in si-SchedulingInfo-v1700, if present, is set to notBroadcasting;
3>	if acknowledgement for SI request is received from lower layers:
4>	acquire the requested SI message(s) as defined in clause 5.2.2.3.2, immediately;
2>	else if the UE is neither a RedCap nor an eRedCap UE and if SIB1 includes posSI-SchedulingInfo containing posSI-RequestConfig and criteria to select normal uplink as defined in TS 38.321[3], clause 5.1.1 is met; or
2>	if the UE is an (e)RedCap UE and if initialUplinkBWP-RedCap is not configured in UplinkConfigCommonSIB and if SIB1 includes posSI-SchedulingInfo containing posSI-RequestConfig and criteria to select normal uplink as defined in TS 38.321[3], clause 5.1.1 is met:
3>	trigger the lower layer to initiate the Random Access procedure on normal uplink in accordance with TS 38.321 [3] using the PRACH preamble(s) and PRACH resource(s) in posSI-RequestConfig corresponding to the SI message(s) that the UE upper layers require for positioning operations, and for which posSI-BroadcastStatus in posSchedulingInfoList in posSI-SchedulingInfo or si-BroadcastStatus of the type2 SIB configured by schedulingInfoList2 in si-SchedulingInfo-v1700, if present, is set to notBroadcasting;
3>	if acknowledgement for SI request is received from lower layers:
4>	acquire the requested SI message(s) as defined in clause 5.2.2.3.2, immediately;
2>	else:
3>	apply the default L1 parameter values as specified in corresponding physical layer specifications except for the parameters for which values are provided in SIB1;
3>	apply the default MAC Cell Group configuration as specified in 9.2.2;
3>	apply the timeAlignmentTimerCommon included in SIB1;
3>	apply the CCCH configuration as specified in 9.1.1.2;
3>	initiate transmission of the RRCSystemInfoRequest message with rrcPosSystemInfoRequest in accordance with 5.2.2.3.4;
3>	if acknowledgement for RRCSystemInfoRequest message with rrcPosSystemInfoRequest is received from lower layers:
4>	acquire the requested SI message(s) as defined in clause 5.2.2.3.2, immediately;
1>	if cell reselection occurs while waiting for the acknowledgment for SI request from lower layers:
2>	reset MAC;
2>	if SI request is based on RRCSystemInfoRequest message with rrcPosSystemInfoRequest:
3>	release RLC entity for SRB0.
NOTE:	After RACH failure for SI request it is up to UE implementation when to retry the SI request.
5.2.2.3.4	Actions related to transmission of RRCSystemInfoRequest message
The UE shall set the contents of RRCSystemInfoRequest message as follows:
1>	if the procedure is triggered to request the required SI message(s) other than positioning:
2>	set the requested-SI-List to indicate the SI message(s) that the UE requires to operate within the cell, and for which si-BroadcastStatus is set to notBroadcasting;
1>	else if the procedure is triggered to request the required SI message(s) for positioning:
2>	set the requestedPosSI-List to indicate the SI message(s) that the UE upper layers require for positioning operations, and for which posSI-BroadcastStatus in posSchedulingInfoList in posSI-SchedulingInfo or si-BroadcastStatus of the type2 SIB configured by schedulingInfoList2 in si-SchedulingInfo-v1700, if present, is set to notBroadcasting.
The UE shall submit the RRCSystemInfoRequest message to lower layers for transmission.
5.2.2.3.5	Acquisition of SIB(s) or posSIB(s) in RRC_CONNECTED
The UE shall:
1>	if the UE is in RRC_CONNECTED with an active BWP not configured with common search space with the field searchSpaceOtherSystemInformation and the UE has not stored a valid version of a SIB or posSIB, in accordance with clause 5.2.2.2.1, of one or several required SIB(s) or posSIB(s) in accordance with clause 5.2.2.1, or
1>	if the UE is in RRC_CONNECTED and acting as a L2 U2N Remote UE and the UE has not stored a valid version of a SIB, in accordance with clause 5.2.2.2.1, of one or several required SIB(s) in accordance with clause 5.2.2.1:
2>	for the SI message(s) that, according to the si-SchedulingInfo or posSI-SchedulingInfo in the stored SIB1, contain at least one required SIB or requested posSIB:
3>	if onDemandSIB-Request is configured and timer T350 is not running:
4>	initiate transmission of the DedicatedSIBRequest message in accordance with 5.2.2.3.6;
4>	start timer T350 with the timer value set to the onDemandSIB-RequestProhibitTimer;
1>	else if the UE is in RRC_CONNECTED with an active BWP configured with common search space with the field searchSpaceOtherSystemInformation and the UE has not stored a valid version of a SIB or posSIB, in accordance with clause 5.2.2.2.1, of one or several required SIB(s) or posSIB(s) in accordance with clause 5.2.2.1:
2>	for the SI message(s) that, according to the si-SchedulingInfo in the stored SIB1, contain at least one required SIB and for which si-BroadcastStatus is set to broadcasting:
3>	acquire the SI message(s) as defined in clause 5.2.2.3.2;
2>	for the SI message(s) that, according to the si-SchedulingInfo in the stored SIB1, contain at least one required SIB and for which si-BroadcastStatus is set to notBroadcasting:
3>	if onDemandSIB-Request is configured and timer T350 is not running:
4>	initiate transmission of the DedicatedSIBRequest message in accordance with 5.2.2.3.6;
4>	start timer T350 with the timer value set to the onDemandSIB-RequestProhibitTimer;
4>	acquire the requested SI message(s) corresponding to the requested SIB(s) as defined in clause 5.2.2.3.2.
2>	for the SI message(s) that, according to the posSI-SchedulingInfo or si-SchedulingInfo-v1700, if present, in the stored SIB1, contain at least one requested posSIB and for which posSI-BroadcastStatus in posSchedulingInfoList in posSI-SchedulingInfo or si-BroadcastStatus of the type2 SIB configured by schedulingInfoList2 in si-SchedulingInfo-v1700, if present, is set to broadcasting:
3>	acquire the SI message(s) as defined in clause 5.2.2.3.2;
2>	for the SI message(s) that, according to the posSI-SchedulingInfo or si-SchedulingInfo-v1700, if present, in the stored SIB1, contain at least one requested posSIB and for which posSI-BroadcastStatus in posSchedulingInfoList in posSI-SchedulingInfo or si-BroadcastStatus of the type2 SIB configured by schedulingInfoList2 in si-SchedulingInfo-v1700, if present, is set to notBroadcasting:
3>	if onDemandSIB-Request is configured and timer T350 is not running:
4>	initiate transmission of the DedicatedSIBRequest message in accordance with 5.2.2.3.6;
4>	start timer T350 with the timer value set to the onDemandSIB-RequestProhibitTimer;
4>	acquire the requested SI message(s) corresponding to the requested posSIB(s) as defined in clause 5.2.2.3.2.
NOTE:	UE may include on demand request for SIB and/or posSIB(s) in the same DedicatedSIBRequest message.
5.2.2.3.6	Actions related to transmission of DedicatedSIBRequest message
The UE shall set the contents of DedicatedSIBRequest message as follows:
1>	if the procedure is triggered to request the required SIB(s):
2>	include requestedSIB-List in the onDemandSIB-RequestList to indicate the requested SIB(s);
1>	if the procedure is triggered to request the required posSIB(s):
2>	include requestedPosSIB-List in the onDemandSIB-RequestList to indicate the requested posSIB(s).
The UE shall submit the DedicatedSIBRequest message to lower layers for transmission.
5.2.2.4	Actions upon receipt of System Information
5.2.2.4.1	Actions upon reception of the MIB
Upon receiving the MIB the UE shall:
1>	store the acquired MIB;
1>	if the UE is in RRC_IDLE or in RRC_INACTIVE, or if the UE is in RRC_CONNECTED while T311 is running:
2>	if the access is not for NTN or the UE is not capable of NTN; and
2>	if the UE does not support nes-CellDTX-DRX; and
2>	if the access is not for ATG or the UE is not capable of ATG; and
2>	if the UE is not IAB-MT; and
2>	if the UE is not NCR-MT; and
2>	if the cellBarred in the acquired MIB is set to barred:
3>	if the UE is an (e)RedCap UE or a 2Rx XR UE and if ssb-SubcarrierOffset indicates SIB1 is transmitted in the cell (TS 38.213 [13]):
4>	acquire the SIB1, which is scheduled as specified in TS 38.213 [13];
3>	consider the cell as barred in accordance with TS 38.304 [20];
3>	perform cell re-selection to other cells on the same frequency as the barred cell as specified in TS 38.304 [20];
2>	else:
3>	apply the received systemFrameNumber, pdcch-ConfigSIB1, subCarrierSpacingCommon, ssb-SubcarrierOffset and dmrs-TypeA-Position.
NOTE 1:	A UE capable of NTN access should acquire SIB1 to determine whether the cell is an NTN cell.
NOTE 2:	A UE capable of ATG access should acquire SIB1 to determine whether the cell is an ATG cell.
NOTE 3:	A UE indicating any of the values in nes-CellDTX-DRX should acquire SIB1 to determine the cell barring status when the cellBarred in MIB is set to barred.
5.2.2.4.2	Actions upon reception of the SIB1
Upon receiving the SIB1 the UE shall:
1>	store the acquired SIB1;
1>	if the access is for NTN:
2>	if the UE is in RRC_IDLE or in RRC_INACTIVE, or if the UE is in RRC_CONNECTED while T311 is running:
3>	if the cellBarredNTN in the acquired SIB1 is set to barred or the cellBarredNTN is not included in the acquired SIB1:
4>	consider the cell as barred in accordance with TS 38.304 [20];
4>	perform cell re-selection to other cells on the same frequency as the barred cell as specified in TS 38.304 [20], upon which the procedure ends;
3>	if the UE is a fixed VSAT UE and the cellBarredFixedVSAT in the acquired SIB1 is set to barred or the cellBarredFixedVSAT is not included in the acquired SIB1, or
3>	if the UE is a mobile VSAT UE and the cellBarredMobileVSAT in the acquired SIB1 is set to barred or the cellBarredMobileVSAT is not included in the acquired SIB1:
4>	consider the cell as barred in accordance with TS 38.304 [20];
4>	perform cell re-selection to other cells on the same frequency as the barred cell as specified in TS 38.304 [20], upon which the procedure ends;
1>	if the access is for ATG:
2>	if the UE is in RRC_IDLE or in RRC_INACTIVE, or if the UE is in RRC_CONNECTED while T311 is running; and
2>	if the cellBarredATG in the acquired SIB1 is set to barred or the cellBarredATG is not included in the acquired SIB1:
3>	consider the cell as barred in accordance with TS 38.304 [20];
3>	perform cell re-selection to other cells on the same frequency as the barred cell as specified in TS 38.304 [20], upon which the procedure ends;
1>	if the UE is a RedCap UE and it is in RRC_IDLE or in RRC_INACTIVE, or if the RedCap UE is in RRC_CONNECTED while T311 is running:
2>	if intraFreqReselectionRedCap is not present in SIB1; or
2>	if the halfDuplexRedCapAllowed is not present in the acquired SIB1 and the UE supports only half-duplex FDD operation:
3>	consider the cell as barred in accordance with TS 38.304 [20];
3>	perform cell re-selection to other cells on the same frequency as the barred cell as specified in TS 38.304 [20], upon which the procedure ends;
2> else:
3>	if the cellBarredRedCap1Rx is present in the acquired SIB1 and is set to barred and the UE supports 1 Rx branch; or
3>	if the cellBarredRedCap2Rx is present in the acquired SIB1 and is set to barred and the UE supports 2 Rx branches:
4>	evaluate the cell barring criteria in accordance with TS 38.304 [20];
4>	if the cell is considered as barred;
5>	perform cell re-selection to other cells on the same frequency as the barred cell as specified in TS 38.304 [20], upon which the procedure ends;
1>	if the UE is a 2Rx XR UE and is in RRC_IDLE or in RRC_INACTIVE, or if the 2Rx XR UE is in RRC_CONNECTED while T311 is running:
2>	if the cellBarred2RxXR is present in the acquired SIB1:
3>	evaluate the cell barring criteria in accordance with TS 38.304 [20];
3>	if the cell is considered as barred;
4>	perform cell re-selection to other cells on the same frequency as the barred cell as specified in TS 38.304 [20] upon which the procedure ends;
1>	if the UE supports nes-CellDTX-DRX and it is in RRC_IDLE or in RRC_INACTIVE, or if the UE supporting nes-CellDTX-DRX is in RRC_CONNECTED while T311 is running:
2>	if cellBarred in the acquired MIB is set to barred:
3>	if cellBarredNES is absent in the acquired SIB1:
4>	consider the cell as barred in accordance with TS 38.304 [20];
4>	perform cell re-selection to other cells on the same frequency as the barred cell as specified in TS 38.304 [20], upon which the procedure ends;
1>	if the UE is an eRedCap UE and it is in RRC_IDLE or in RRC_INACTIVE, or if the eRedCap UE is in RRC_CONNECTED while T311 is running:
2>	if intraFreqReselection-eRedCap is not present in SIB1; or
2>	if the halfDuplexRedCapAllowed is not present in the acquired SIB1 and the UE supports only half-duplex FDD operation:
3>	consider the cell as barred in accordance with TS 38.304 [20];
3>	perform cell re-selection to other cells on the same frequency as the barred cell as specified in TS 38.304 [20], upon which the procedure ends;
2>	else:
3>	if the cellBarred-eRedCap1Rx is present in the acquired SIB1 and is set to barred and the UE supports 1 Rx branch; or
3>	if the cellBarred-eRedCap2Rx is present in the acquired SIB1 and is set to barred and the UE supports 2 Rx branches:
4>	evaluate the cell barring criteria in accordance with TS 38.304 [20];
4>	if the cell is considered as barred;
5>	perform cell re-selection to other cells on the same frequency as the barred cell as specified in TS 38.304 [20] upon which the procedure ends;
1>	if the cellAccessRelatedInfo contains an entry of a selected SNPN or PLMN and in case of PLMN the UE is either allowed or instructed to access the PLMN via a cell for which at least one CAG ID is broadcast:
2>	in the remainder of the procedures use npn-IdentityList, trackingAreaCode, and cellIdentity for the cell as received in the corresponding entry of npn-IdentityInfoList containing the selected PLMN or SNPN;
1>	else if the cellAccessRelatedInfo contains an entry with the PLMN-Identity of the selected PLMN:
2>	in the remainder of the procedures use plmn-IdentityList, trackingAreaCode, trackingAreaList, and cellIdentity for the cell as received in the corresponding PLMN-IdentityInfo containing the selected PLMN;
1>	if the UE in RRC_INACTIVE is configured for feature(s) that it does not support in current serving cell:
2>	not use the corresponding configuration in current serving cell;
NOTE 0:	The requirement above applies only to UE that indicates different support of UE capabilities for TN and NTN.
1>	if in RRC_CONNECTED while T311 is not running:
2>	disregard the frequencyBandList, if received, while in RRC_CONNECTED;
2>	forward the cellIdentity to upper layers;
2>	forward the trackingAreaCode to upper layers, if included;
2>	forward the trackingAreaList to upper layers, if included;
2>	forward the received posSIB-MappingInfo to upper layers, if included;
2>	apply the configuration included in the servingCellConfigCommon;
2>	if the UE has a stored valid version of a SIB or posSIB, in accordance with clause 5.2.2.2.1, that the UE requires to operate within the cell in accordance with clause 5.2.2.1:
3>	use the stored version of the required SIB or posSIB;
2>	else:
3>	acquire the required SIB or posSIB requested by upper layer as defined in clause 5.2.2.3.5;
NOTE 1:	Void.
1>	else:
2>	if the UE supports one or more of the frequency bands indicated in the frequencyBandList or frequencyBandListAerial for downlink for TDD, or one or more of the frequency bands indicated in the frequencyBandList or frequencyBandListAerial for uplink for FDD, and they are not downlink only bands, and
2>	if the UE is IAB-MT or wide area NCR-MT (see TS 38.106 [79]) or supports at least one additionalSpectrumEmission in the nr-NS-PmaxList or nr-NS-PmaxListAerial for a supported band in the downlink for TDD, or a supported band in uplink for FDD, and
2>	if the UE supports an uplink channel bandwidth with a maximum transmission bandwidth configuration (see TS 38.101-1 [15], TS 38.101-2 [39], and TS 38.101-5 [75]) which
-	is smaller than or equal to the carrierBandwidth (indicated in uplinkConfigCommon for the SCS of the initial uplink BWP or, for (e)RedCap UE, of the RedCap-specific initial uplink BWP if configured), and which
-	is wider than or equal to the bandwidth of the initial uplink BWP or, for (e)RedCap UE, of the RedCap-specific initial uplink BWP if configured, and
2>	if the UE supports a downlink channel bandwidth with a maximum transmission bandwidth configuration (see TS 38.101-1 [15], TS 38.101-2 [39], and TS 38.101-5 [75]) which
-	is smaller than or equal to the carrierBandwidth (indicated in downlinkConfigCommon for the SCS of the initial downlink BWP or, for (e)RedCap UE, of the RedCap-specific initial downlink BWP if configured), and which
-	is wider than or equal to the bandwidth of the initial downlink BWP or, for (e)RedCap UE, of the RedCap-specific initial downlink BWP if configured, and
2>	if frequencyShift7p5khz is present and the UE supports corresponding 7.5kHz frequency shift on this band; or frequencyShift7p5khz is not present, and
2>	if the UE is neither a RedCap nor an eRedCap UE, or for TDD if the UE is an (e)RedCap UE, or for FDD if the UE is an (e)RedCap UE and halfDuplexRedCapAllowed is present, or if the UE is an (e)RedCap UE and the (e)RedCap UE supports full-duplex FDD operation on this band:
3>	if neither trackingAreaCode nor trackingAreaList is provided for the selected PLMN nor the registered PLMN nor PLMN of the equivalent PLMN list:
4>	consider the cell as barred in accordance with TS 38.304 [20];
4>	perform cell re-selection to other cells on the same frequency as the barred cell as specified in TS 38.304 [20], upon which the procedure ends;
3>	else if UE is IAB-MT but not a mobile IAB-MT and if iab-Support is not provided for the selected PLMN nor the registered PLMN nor PLMN of the equivalent PLMN list nor the selected SNPN nor the registered SNPN nor SNPN of the equivalent SNPN list:
4>	consider the cell as barred in accordance with TS 38.304 [20];
4>	perform cell re-selection to other cells on the same frequency as the barred cell as specified in TS 38.304 [20], upon which the procedure ends;
3>	else if UE is NCR-MT and if ncr-Support is not provided:
4>	consider the cell as barred in accordance with TS 38.304 [20];
4>	perform cell re-selection to other cells on the same frequency as the barred cell as specified in TS 38.304 [20], upon which the procedure ends;
3>	else if UE is a mobile IAB-MT and if mobileIAB-Support is not provided for the selected PLMN nor the registered PLMN nor PLMN of the equivalent PLMN list nor the selected SNPN nor the registered SNPN nor SNPN of the equivalent SNPN list:
4>	consider the cell as barred in accordance with TS 38.304 [20];
4>	perform cell re-selection to other cells on the same frequency as the barred cell as specified in TS 38.304 [20], upon which the procedure ends;
3>	else:
4>	apply a supported uplink channel bandwidth with a maximum transmission bandwidth which
-	is contained within the carrierBandwidth indicated in uplinkConfigCommon for the SCS of the initial uplink BWP or, for (e)RedCap UEs, RedCap-specific initial uplink BWP, if configured, and which
-	is wider than or equal to the bandwidth of the initial BWP for the uplink or, for a (e)RedCap UE, of the RedCap-specific initial uplink BWP if configured;
4>	apply a supported downlink channel bandwidth with a maximum transmission bandwidth which
- is contained within the carrierBandwidth indicated in downlinkConfigCommon for the SCS of the initial downlink BWP or, for (e)RedCap UEs, RedCap-specific initial downlink BWP, if configured, and which
- is wider than or equal to the bandwidth of the initial BWP for the downlink or, for a (e)RedCap UE, of the RedCap-specific initial downlink BWP if configured;
4>	if the UE is aerial UE and it supports at least one frequency band in the frequencyBandListAerial, for FDD from frequencyBandListAerial for uplink, or for TDD from frequencyBandListAerial for downlink, for which SIB1 includes nr-NS-PmaxListAerial and the UE supports at least one of the additionalSpectrumEmission values in the nr-NS-PmaxListAerial:
5>	select the first frequency band in the frequencyBandListAerial, for FDD from frequencyBandListAerial for uplink, or for TDD from frequencyBandListAerial for downlink, which the UE supports and for which SIB1 includes nr-NS-PmaxListAerial and the UE supports at least one of the additionalSpectrumEmission values in the nr-NS-PmaxListAerial;
4>	else if the UE is aerial UE and it supports at least one frequency band in the frequencyBandListAerial, for FDD from frequencyBandListAerial for uplink, or for TDD from frequencyBandListAerial for downlink, for which SIB1 does not include nr-NS-PmaxListAerial and the UE supports at least one of the additionalSpectrumEmission values in the nr-NS-PmaxList within frequencyBandList for the same NR frequency band number:
5>	select the first frequency band in the frequencyBandListAerial, for FDD from frequencyBandListAerial for uplink, or for TDD from frequencyBandListAerial for downlink, which the UE supports and for which SIB1 does not include nr-NS-PmaxListAerial and the UE supports at least one of the additionalSpectrumEmission values in the nr-NS-PmaxList within frequencyBandList for the same NR frequency band number;
4>	else if the UE is aerial UE and SIB1 includes frequencyBandListAerial:
5>	consider the cell as barred in accordance with TS 38.304 [20];
5>	perform cell re-selection to other cells on the same frequency as the barred cell as if intraFreqReselection, or intraFreqReselectionRedCap for RedCap UEs, or intraFreqReselection-eRedCap for eRedCap UEs is set to notAllowed as specified in TS 38.304 [20], upon which the procedure ends;
4>	else:
5>	select the first frequency band in the frequencyBandList, for FDD from frequencyBandList for uplink, or for TDD from frequencyBandList for downlink, which the UE supports and for which the UE supports at least one of the additionalSpectrumEmission values in nr-NS-PmaxList, if present, and for (e)RedCap UEs in FDD, if the halfDuplexRedCapAllowed is not present, for which the UE supports full-duplex FDD operation;
4>	forward the cellIdentity to upper layers;
4>	forward the trackingAreaCode to upper layers;
4>	forward the trackingAreaList to upper layers, if included;
4>	forward the received posSIB-MappingInfo to upper layers, if included;
4>	forward the PLMN identity or SNPN identity or PNI-NPN identity to upper layers;
4>	if in RRC_INACTIVE and the forwarded information does not trigger message transmission by upper layers:
5>	if the serving cell does not belong to the configured ran-NotificationAreaInfo:
6>	initiate an RNA update as specified in 5.3.13.8;
5>	if configured to receive MBS multicast in RRC_INACTIVE:
6>	if SIB24 is not scheduled in SIB1 in the new cell after cell selection (i.e., different from the cell where the UE was configured to receive multicast in RRC_CONNECTED) or in the cell after cell reselection; or
6>	if the PTM configuration is not available on the multicast MCCH in the new cell after cell selection (i.e., different from the cell where the UE was configured to receive multicast in RRC_CONNECTED) or in the cell after cell reselection for at least one multicast session that the UE has joined and for which the UE was indicated to stop monitoring G-RNTI;
7>	initiate RRC connection resume procedure for multicast reception as specified in 5.3.13.1d;
4>	forward the ims-EmergencySupport to upper layers, if present;
4>	forward the eCallOverIMS-Support to upper layers, if present;
4>	forward the UAC-AccessCategory1-SelectionAssistanceInfo or UAC-AC1-SelectAssistInfo for the selected PLMN/SNPN to upper layers, if present and set to a, b or c;
4>	if the UE is in SNPN access mode:
5>	forward the imsEmergencySupportForSNPN indicators with the corresponding SNPN identities to upper layers, if present;
4>	apply the configuration included in the servingCellConfigCommon;
4>	apply the specified PCCH configuration defined in 9.1.1.3;
4>	if the UE has a stored valid version of a SIB, in accordance with clause 5.2.2.2.1, that the UE requires to operate within the cell in accordance with clause 5.2.2.1:
5>	use the stored version of the required SIB;
4>	if the UE has not stored a valid version of a SIB, in accordance with clause 5.2.2.2.1, of one or several required SIB(s), in accordance with clause 5.2.2.1:
5>	for the SI message(s) that, according to the si-SchedulingInfo, contain at least one required SIB and for which si-BroadcastStatus is set to broadcasting:
6>	acquire the SI message(s) as defined in clause 5.2.2.3.2;
5>	for the SI message(s) that, according to the si-SchedulingInfo, contain at least one required SIB and for which si-BroadcastStatus is set to notBroadcasting:
6>	trigger a request to acquire the SI message(s) as defined in clause 5.2.2.3.3;
4>	if the UE has a stored valid version of a posSIB, in accordance with clause 5.2.2.2.1, of one or several required posSIB(s), in accordance with clause 5.2.2.1:
5>	use the stored version of the required posSIB;
4> if the UE has not stored a valid version of a posSIB, in accordance with clause 5.2.2.2.1, of one or several posSIB(s) in accordance with clause 5.2.2.1:
5>	for the SI message(s) that, according to the posSI-SchedulingInfo or si-SchedulingInfo-v1700, if present, contain at least one requested posSIB and for which posSI-BroadcastStatus in posSchedulingInfoList in posSI-SchedulingInfo or si-BroadcastStatus of the type2 SIB configured by schedulingInfoList2 in si-SchedulingInfo-v1700, if present, is set to broadcasting:
6>	acquire the SI message(s) as defined in clause 5.2.2.3.2;
5>	for the SI message(s) that, according to the posSI-SchedulingInfo or si-SchedulingInfo-v1700, if present, contain at least one requested posSIB for which posSI-BroadcastStatus in posSchedulingInfoList in posSI-SchedulingInfo or si-BroadcastStatus of the type2 SIB configured by schedulingInfoList2 in si-SchedulingInfo-v1700, if present, is set to notBroadcasting:
6>	trigger a request to acquire the SI message(s) as defined in clause 5.2.2.3.3a;
4>	if the UE is aerial UE and, for the selected frequency band, it supports at least one additionalSpectrumEmission value indicated by nr-NS-PmaxListAerial within frequencyBandListAerial in uplinkConfigCommon for FDD or in downlinkConfigCommon for TDD:
5>	apply the first listed additionalSpectrumEmission which it supports among the values indicated by nr-NS-PmaxListAerial for the selected frequency band within frequencyBandListAerial in uplinkConfigCommon for FDD or in downlinkConfigCommon for TDD;
4>	else:
5>	apply the first listed additionalSpectrumEmission which it supports among the values included in nr-NS-PmaxList within frequencyBandList in uplinkConfigCommon for FDD or in downlinkConfigCommon for TDD;
4>	if the additionalPmax is present in the same entry of the selected additionalSpectrumEmission within nr-NS-PmaxList or nr-NS-PmaxListAerial:
5>	apply the additionalPmax for UL;
4>	else:
5>	apply the p-Max in uplinkConfigCommon for UL;
4>	if supplementaryUplink is present in servingCellConfigCommon; and
4>	if the UE supports one or more of the frequency bands indicated in the frequencyBandList for the supplementaryUplink; and
4>	if the UE supports at least one additionalSpectrumEmission in the nr-NS-PmaxList for a supported supplementary uplink band; and
4>	if the UE is neither a RedCap nor an eRedCap UE, or for TDD if the UE is an (e)RedCap UE, or for FDD if the UE is an (e)RedCap UE and halfDuplexRedCapAllowed is present, or if the UE is an (e)RedCap UE and the (e)RedCap UE supports full-duplex FDD operation on the frequency bands indicated in the frequencyBandList for the supplementaryUplink; and
4>	if the UE supports an uplink channel bandwidth with a maximum transmission bandwidth configuration (see TS 38.101-1 [15] and TS 38.101-2 [39]) which
-	is smaller than or equal to the carrierBandwidth (indicated in supplementaryUplink for the SCS of the initial uplink BWP), and which
-	is wider than or equal to the bandwidth of the initial uplink BWP of the SUL:
5>	consider supplementary uplink as configured in the serving cell;
5>	select the first frequency band in the frequencyBandList for the supplementaryUplink which the UE supports and for which the UE supports at least one of the additionalSpectrumEmission values in nr-NS-PmaxList, if present, and for (e)RedCap UEs in FDD, if the halfDuplexRedCapAllowed is not present, for which the UE supports full-duplex FDD operation;
5>	apply a supported supplementary uplink channel bandwidth with a maximum transmission bandwidth which
-	is contained within the carrierBandwidth (indicated in supplementaryUplink for the SCS of the initial uplink BWP), and which
-	is wider than or equal to the bandwidth of the initial BWP of the SUL;
5>	apply the first listed additionalSpectrumEmission which it supports among the values included in nr-NS-PmaxList within frequencyBandList for the supplementaryUplink;
5>	if the additionalPmax is present in the same entry of the selected additionalSpectrumEmission within nr-NS-PmaxList for the supplementaryUplink:
6>	apply the additionalPmax in supplementaryUplink for SUL;
5>	else:
6>	apply the p-Max in supplementaryUplink for SUL;
NOTE 2:	For an out of coverage L2 U2N Remote UE in RRC_IDLE or RRC_INACTIVE receiving SIB1 from its connected L2 U2N Relay UE, it is up to Remote UE implementation whether to consider and apply the following parameters: frequencyBandList, carrierBandwidth, frequencyShift7p5khz, frequency band, channel bandwidth, the configuration included in the servingCellConfigCommon, the specified PCCH configuration, additionalSpectrumEmission, additionalPmax, and p-Max.
2>	else:
3>	consider the cell as barred in accordance with TS 38.304 [20]; and
3>	perform cell re-selection to other cells on the same frequency as the barred cell as if intraFreqReselection, or intraFreqReselectionRedCap for RedCap UEs, or intraFreqReselection-eRedCap for eRedCap UEs, or intraFreqReselection2RxXR for 2Rx XR UEs is set to notAllowed as specified in TS 38.304 [20];
5.2.2.4.3	Actions upon reception of SIB2
Upon receiving SIB2, the UE shall:
1>	if in RRC_IDLE or in RRC_INACTIVE or in RRC_CONNECTED while T311 is running:
2>	if, for the entry in frequencyBandList with the same index as the frequency band selected in clause 5.2.2.4.2, the UE supports at least one additionalSpectrumEmission in the nr-NS-PmaxList within the frequencyBandList; or
2>	if, for the entry in frequencyBandListAerial with the same index as the frequency band selected in clause 5.2.2.4.2, the UE supports at least one additionalSpectrumEmission value indicated by the nr-Ns-PmaxListAerial within the frequencyBandListAerial:
3>	if the UE is aerial UE and it supports at least one additionalSpectrumEmission value indicated by nr-NS-PmaxListAerial:
4>	apply the first listed additionalSpectrumEmission which it supports among the values indicated by nr-NS-PmaxListAerial;
3>	else:
4>	apply the first listed additionalSpectrumEmission which it supports among the values included in nr-NS-PmaxList within frequencyBandList;
3>	if the additionalPmax is present in the same entry of the selected additionalSpectrumEmission within nr-NS-PmaxList or nr-NS-PmaxListAerial:
4>	apply the additionalPmax;
3>	else:
4>	apply the p-Max;
3>	if the UE selects a frequency band (from the procedure in clause 5.2.2.4.2) for the supplementary uplink:
4>	if, for the entry in frequencyBandListSUL with the same index as the frequency band selected in clause 5.2.2.4.2, the UE supports at least one additionalSpectrumEmission in the nr-NS-PmaxList within the frequencyBandListSUL:
5>	apply the first listed additionalSpectrumEmission which it supports among the values included in nr-NS-PmaxList within frequencyBandListSUL;
5>	if the additionalPmax is present in the same entry of the selected additionalSpectrumEmission within nr-NS-PmaxList:
6>	apply the additionalPmax;
5>	else:
6>	apply the p-Max;
4>	else:
5>	apply the p-Max.
2>	else:
3>	apply the p-Max;
5.2.2.4.4	Actions upon reception of SIB3
No UE requirements related to the contents of this SIB3 apply other than those specified elsewhere e.g. within procedures using the concerned system information, and/ or within the corresponding field descriptions.
5.2.2.4.5	Actions upon reception of SIB4
Upon receiving SIB4 the UE shall:
1>	if in RRC_IDLE, or in RRC_INACTIVE or in RRC_CONNECTED while T311 is running:
2>	for each entry in the interFreqCarrierFreqList:
3>	if the UE is neither a RedCap nor an eRedCap UE nor 2Rx XR UE; or
3>	if the UE is a RedCap UE and the interFreqCarrierFreqList-v1700 is absent; or
3>	if the UE is an eRedCap UE and the interFreqCarrierFreqList-v1800 is absent; or
3>	if the UE is a 2Rx XR UE and the interFreqCarrierFreqList-v1800 is absent; or
3>	if the UE is a RedCap UE and redCapAccessAllowed is present in interFreqCarrierFreqList-v1700; or
3>	if the UE is an eRedCap UE and eRedCapAccessAllowed is present in interFreqCarrierFreqList-v1800; or
3>	if the UE is a 2Rx XR UE and accessAllowed2RxXR is present in interFreqCarrierFreqList-v1800:
4>	select the first frequency band in the frequencyBandList (or for aerial UE frequencyBandListAerial), and frequencyBandListSUL, if present, which the UE supports and for which the UE supports at least one of the additionalSpectrumEmission values in nr-NS-PmaxList (or for aerial UE as indicated by nr-NS-PmaxListAerial), if present:
4>	if, the frequency band selected by the UE in frequencyBandList or frequencyBandListAerial to represent a non-serving NR carrier frequency is not a downlink only band:
5>	if, for the selected frequency band, the UE supports at least one additionalSpectrumEmission in the nr-NS-PmaxList within the frequencyBandList; or
5>	if, for the selected frequency band, the UE supports at least one additionalSpectrumEmission value indicated by the nr-NS-PmaxListAerial within the frequencyBandListAerial:
6>	if the UE is aerial UE and it supports at least one additionalSpectrumEmission value indicated by nr-NS-PmaxListAerial:
7>	apply the first listed additionalSpectrumEmission which it supports among the values indicated by nr-NS-PmaxListAerial;
6>	else:
7>	apply the first listed additionalSpectrumEmission which it supports among the values included in nr-NS-PmaxList within frequencyBandList;
6>	if the additionalPmax is present in the same entry of the selected additionalSpectrumEmission within nr-NS-PmaxList or nr-NS-PmaxListAerial:
7>	apply the additionalPmax;
6>	else:
7>	apply the p-Max;
6>	if frequencyBandListSUL is present in SIB4 and, for the frequency band selected in frequencyBandListSUL, the UE supports at least one additionalSpectrumEmission in the nr-NS-PmaxList within FrequencyBandListSUL:
7>	apply the first listed additionalSpectrumEmission which it supports among the values included in nr-NS-PmaxList within frequencyBandListSUL;
7>	if the additionalPmax is present in the same entry of the selected additionalSpectrumEmission within nr-NS-PmaxList:
8>	apply the additionalPmax;
7>	else:
8>	apply the p-Max;
6>	else:
7>	apply the p-Max;
5>	else:
6>	apply the p-Max;
1>	if in RRC_IDLE or RRC_INACTIVE, and T331 is running:
2>	perform the actions as specified in 5.7.8.1a;
5.2.2.4.6	Actions upon reception of SIB5
No UE requirements related to the contents of this SIB5 apply other than those specified elsewhere e.g. within procedures using the concerned system information, and/ or within the corresponding field descriptions.
5.2.2.4.7	Actions upon reception of SIB6
Upon receiving the SIB6 the UE shall:
1>	forward the received warningType, messageIdentifier and serialNumber to upper layers;	
5.2.2.4.8	Actions upon reception of SIB7
Upon receiving the SIB7 the UE shall:
1>	if there is no current value for messageIdentifier and serialNumber for SIB7; or
1>	if either the received value of messageIdentifier or of serialNumber, or of both messageIdentifier and serialNumber are different from the current values of messageIdentifier and serialNumber for SIB7:
2>	use the received values of messageIdentifier and serialNumber for SIB7 as the current values of messageIdentifier and serialNumber for SIB7;
2>	discard any previously buffered warningMessageSegment;
2>	if all segments of a warning message have been received:
3>	assemble the warning message from the received warningMessageSegment(s);
3>	forward the received warning message, messageIdentifier, serialNumber and dataCodingScheme to upper layers;
3>	stop reception of SIB7;
3>	discard the current values of messageIdentifier and serialNumber for SIB7;
2>	else:
3>	store the received warningMessageSegment;
3>	continue reception of SIB7;
1>	else if all segments of a warning message have been received:
2>	assemble the warning message from the received warningMessageSegment(s);
2>	forward the received complete warning message, messageIdentifier, serialNumber and dataCodingScheme to upper layers;
2>	stop reception of SIB7;
2>	discard the current values of messageIdentifier and serialNumber for SIB7;
1>	else:
2>	store the received warningMessageSegment;
2>	continue reception of SIB7;
The UE should discard any stored warningMessageSegment and the current value of messageIdentifier and serialNumber for SIB7 if the complete warning message has not been assembled within a period of 3 hours.
5.2.2.4.9	Actions upon reception of SIB8
Upon receiving the SIB8 the UE shall:
1>	if the SIB8 contains a complete warning message and the complete geographical area coordinates (if any):
2>	forward the received warning message, messageIdentifier, serialNumber, dataCodingScheme and the geographical area coordinates (if any) to upper layers;
2>	continue reception of SIB8;
1>	else:
2>	if the received values of messageIdentifier and serialNumber are the same (each value is the same) as a pair for which a warning message and the geographical area coordinates (if any) are currently being assembled:
3>	store the received warningMessageSegment;
3>	store the received warningAreaCoordinatesSegment (if any);
3>	if all segments of a warning message and geographical area coordinates (if any) have been received:
4>	assemble the warning message from the received warningMessageSegment;
4>	assemble the geographical area coordinates from the received warningAreaCoordinatesSegment (if any);
4>	forward the received warning message, messageIdentifier, serialNumber, dataCodingScheme and geographical area coordinates (if any) to upper layers;
4>	stop assembling a warning message and geographical area coordinates (if any) for this messageIdentifier and serialNumber and delete all stored information held for it;
3>	continue reception of SIB8;
2>	else if the received values of messageIdentifier and/or serialNumber are not the same as any of the pairs for which a warning message is currently being assembled:
3>	start assembling a warning message for this messageIdentifier and serialNumber pair;
3>	start assembling the geographical area coordinates (if any) for this messageIdentifier and serialNumber pair;
3>	store the received warningMessageSegment;
3>	store the received warningAreaCoordinatesSegment (if any);
3>	continue reception of SIB8;
The UE should discard warningMessageSegment and warningAreaCoordinatesSegment (if any) and the associated values of messageIdentifier and serialNumber for SIB8 if the complete warning message and the geographical area coordinates (if any) have not been assembled within a period of 3 hours.
NOTE:	The number of warning messages that a UE can re-assemble simultaneously is a function of UE implementation.
5.2.2.4.10	Actions upon reception of SIB9
Upon receiving SIB9 with referenceTimeInfo, the UE may perform the related actions in clause 5.7.1.3 except for ignoring all further referenceTimeInfo received in SIB9.
Upon receiving SIB9 with eventID-TSS, the UE shall perform the actions below if requested by upper layers:
1>	if the UE is NPN capable and the cell is an NPN-only cell:
2>	derive a gNB identity from gNB-ID-Length and cellIdentity of the first NPN-IdentityInfo list entry of NPN-IdentityInfoList in SIB1, and derive the plmn-Identity of the first NPN-Identity list entry of NPN-IdentityList in SIB1 included in the first NPN-IdentityInfo list entry of NPN-IdentityInfoList in SIB1, as defined in TS 38.413 [42];
1>	else:
2>	derive a gNB identity from gNB-ID-Length and cellIdentity of the first PLMN-IdentityInfo list entry of PLMN-IdentityInfoList in SIB1, and derive the plmn-Identity of the first PLMN-IdentityInfo list entry of PLMN-IdentityInfoList in SIB1, as defined in TS 38.413 [42];
1>	if VarTSS-Info does not have a storedEventID; or
1>	if the storedEventID within VarTSS-Info is different from the eventID-TSS received within SIB9; or
1>	if the storedGlobalGnbID within the VarTSS-Info is different from the global gNB identity derived from SIB1:
2>	notify upper layers that clockQualityDetailsLevel may have changed;
2>	store the eventID-TSS received within SIB9 as the storedEventID within VarTSS-Info;
2>	store the global gNB identity derived from SIB1 as the storedGlobalGnbID within VarTSS-Info.
5.2.2.4.11	Actions upon reception of SIB10
Upon receiving SIB10, the UE shall:
1>	Forward the HRNN-list entries with the corresponding PNI-NPN and SNPN identities to upper layers;
5.2.2.4.12	Actions upon reception of SIB11
Upon receiving SIB11, the UE shall:
1>	if in RRC_IDLE or RRC_INACTIVE, and T331 is running:
2>	perform the actions as specified in 5.7.8.1a;
5.2.2.4.13	Actions upon reception of SIB12
Upon receiving SIB12, the UE shall:
1>	if the UE has stored at least one segment of SIB12 and the value tag of SIB12 has changed since a previous segment was stored:
2>	discard all stored segments;
1>	store the segment;
1>	if all segments have been received:
2>	assemble SIB12-IEs from the received segments;
2>	if sl-FreqInfoList/sl-FreqInfoListSizeExt is included in SIB12-IEs:
3>	if configured to receive NR sidelink communication:
4>	use the resource pool(s) indicated by sl-RxPool for NR sidelink communication reception, as specified in 5.8.7;
3>	if configured to transmit NR sidelink communication:
4>	use the resource pool(s) indicated by sl-TxPoolSelectedNormal, or sl-TxPoolExceptional for NR sidelink communication transmission, as specified in 5.8.8;
4>	perform CBR measurement on the transmission resource pool(s) indicated by sl-TxPoolSelectedNormal or sl-TxPoolExceptional for NR sidelink communication transmission, as specified in 5.5.3.1;
4>	use the synchronization configuration parameters for NR sidelink communication on frequencies included in sl-FreqInfoList/sl-FreqInfoListSizeExt, as specified in 5.8.5;
3>	if configured to perform SL-PRS measurement:
4>	use the resource pool(s) indicated by sl-RxPool for SL-PRS measurement, as specified in 5.8.18.2;
3>	if configured to transmit SL-PRS:
4>	use the resource pool(s) indicated by sl-TxPoolSelectedNormal, or sl-TxPoolExceptional for SL-PRS transmission, as specified in 5.8.18.3;
4>	perform CBR measurement on the transmission resource pool(s) indicated by sl-TxPoolSelectedNormal or sl-TxPoolExceptional for SL-PRS, as specified in 5.5.3.1;
4>	use the synchronization configuration parameters for NR sidelink positioning on frequencies included in sl-FreqInfoList/sl-FreqInfoListSizeExt, as specified in 5.8.5;
3>	if configured to receive NR sidelink discovery:
4>	use the resource pool(s) indicated by sl-DiscRxPool or sl-RxPool for NR sidelink discovery reception, as specified in 5.8.13.2;
3>	if configured to transmit NR sidelink discovery:
4>	if the UE is configured by upper layers to transmit NR sidelink L2 U2N relay discovery messages and sl-L2U2N-Relay is included in SIB12; or
4>	if the UE is configured by upper layers to transmit NR sidelink L3 U2N relay discovery messages and sl-L3U2N-RelayDiscovery is included in SIB12; or
4>	if the UE is configured by upper layers to transmit NR sidelink non-relay discovery messages and sl-NonRelayDiscovery is included in SIB12; or
4>	if the UE is configured by upper layers to transmit NR sidelink L2 U2U relay discovery messages and sl-L2-U2U-Relay is included in SIB12; or
4>	if the UE is configured by upper layers to transmit NR sidelink L3 U2U relay discovery messages and sl-L3-U2U-RelayDiscovery is included in SIB12:
5>	use the resource pool(s) indicated by sl-DiscTxPoolSelected, sl-TxPoolExceptional or sl-TxPoolSelectedNormal for NR sidelink discovery transmission, as specified in 5.8.13.3;
5>	perform CBR measurement on the transmission resource pool(s) indicated by sl-TxPoolSelectedNormal, sl-DiscTxPoolSelected or sl-TxPoolExceptional for NR sidelink discovery transmission, as specified in 5.5.3.1;
5>	use the synchronization configuration parameters for NR sidelink discovery on frequencies included in sl-FreqInfoList, as specified in 5.8.5;
2>	if sl-RadioBearerConfigList or sl-RLC-BearerConfigList is included in sl-ConfigCommonNR:
3>	perform sidelink DRB addition/modification/release as specified in 5.8.9.1a.1/5.8.9.1a.2;
3>	if sl-RLC-BearerConfigListSizeExt is included in SIB12-IEs:
4>	perform additional sidelink RLC bearer addition/modification/release as specified in 5.8.9.1a.5/5.8.9.1a.6;
2> if sl-MeasConfigCommon is included in sl-ConfigCommonNR:
3> store the NR sidelink measurement configuration;
2>	if sl-DRX-ConfigCommonGC-BC is included in SIB12-IEs:
3>	store the NR sidelink DRX configuration and configure lower layers to perform sidelink DRX operation for groupcast and broadcast as specified in TS 38.321 [3];
1>	if the UE is acting as L2 U2N Remote UE:
2>	if the sl-TimersAndConstantsRemoteUE is included in SIB12:
3>	use values for timers T300, T301 and T319 as included in the sl-TimersAndConstantsRemoteUE received in SIB12;
2>	else:
3>	use values for timers T300, T301 and T319 as included in the ue-TimersAndConstants received in SIB1;
The UE should discard any stored segments for SIB12 if the complete SIB12 has not been assembled within a period of 3 hours. The UE shall discard any stored segments for SIB12 upon cell (re-)selection.
NOTE:	The L2 U2U UE is allowed to use previous configuration based on SIB12 before receiving dedicated configuration during and immediately after state transition from idle/inactive to connected.
5.2.2.4.14	Actions upon reception of SIB13
Upon receiving SIB13, the UE shall perform the actions upon reception of SystemInformationBlockType21 as specified in 5.2.2.28 in TS 36.331 [10].
5.2.2.4.15	Actions upon reception of SIB14
Upon receiving SIB14, the UE shall perform the actions upon reception of SystemInformationBlockType26 as specified in 5.2.2.33 in TS 36.331 [10].
5.2.2.4.16	Actions upon reception of SIBpos
No UE requirements related to the contents of the SIBpos apply other than those specified elsewhere e.g. within TS 37.355 [49], and/or within the corresponding field descriptions.
5.2.2.4.17	Actions upon reception of SIB15
Upon receiving SIB15, the UE shall:
1>	forward the applicable disaster roaming information for each PLMN sharing the cell to upper layers.
5.2.2.4.18	Actions upon reception of SIB16
Upon receiving SIB16 with cell reselection priorities for slicing, the UE shall perform the actions as specified in TS 38.304 [20].
5.2.2.4.19	Actions upon reception of SIB17
Upon receiving SIB17, the UE shall:
1>	if the UE has stored at least one segment of SIB17 and the value tag of SIB17 has changed since a previous segment was stored:
2>	discard all stored segments;
1>	store the segment;
1>	if all segments have been received:
2>	assemble SIB17-IEs from the received segments.
The UE should discard any stored segments for SIB17 if the complete SIB17 has not been assembled within a period of 3 hours. The UE shall discard any stored segments for SIB17 upon cell (re-) selection.
5.2.2.4.19a	Actions upon reception of SIB17bis
Upon receiving SIB17bis, the UE shall:
1>	if the UE has stored at least one segment of SIB17bis and the value tag of SIB17bis has changed since a previous segment was stored:
2>	discard all stored segments;
1>	store the segment;
1>	if all segments have been received:
2>	assemble SIB17bis-IEs from the received segments.
The UE should discard any stored segments for SIB17bis if the complete SIB17bis has not been assembled within a period of 3 hours. The UE shall discard any stored segments for SIB17bis upon cell (re-) selection.
5.2.2.4.20	Actions upon reception of SIB18
Upon receiving SIB18, the UE shall:
1>	forward the Group IDs for Network selection (GINs) in SIB18 with the corresponding SNPN identities to upper layers;
5.2.2.4.21	Actions upon reception of SIB19
Upon receiving SIB19 in an NTN cell, the UE in RRC_CONNECTED shall:
1>	start or restart T430 for serving cell with the timer value set to ntn-UlSyncValidityDuration for the serving cell from the subframe indicated by epochTime for the serving cell.
NOTE:	UE should attempt to re-acquire SIB19 before the end of the duration indicated by ntn-UlSyncValidityDuration and epochTime by UE implementation.
5.2.2.4.22	Actions upon reception of SIB20
No UE requirements related to the contents of SIB20 apply other than those specified elsewhere e.g. within procedures using the concerned system information, and/or within the corresponding field descriptions.
5.2.2.4.23	Actions upon reception of SIB21
No UE requirements related to the contents of SIB21 apply other than those specified elsewhere e.g. within procedures using the concerned system information, and/or within the corresponding field descriptions.
5.2.2.4.24	Actions upon reception of SIB22
No UE requirements related to the contents of SIB22 apply other than those specified elsewhere e.g. within procedures using the concerned system information, and/or within the corresponding field descriptions.
5.2.2.4.25	Actions upon reception of SIB23
Upon receiving SIB23, the UE shall:
1>	if the UE has stored at least one segment of SIB23 and the value tag of SIB23 has changed since a previous segment was stored:
2>	discard all stored segments;
1>	store the segment;
1>	if all segments have been received:
2>	assemble SIB23-IEs from the received segments;
2>	if sl-PosFreqInfoList is included in sl-PosConfigCommonNR:
3>	if configured to perform SL-PRS measurement:
4>	use the resource pool(s) indicated by sl-PRS-RxPool for SL-PRS measurement, as specified in 5.8.18.2;
3>	if configured to transmit SL-PRS:
4>	use the resource pool(s) indicated by sl-PRS-TxPoolSelectedNormal or sl-PRS-TxPoolExceptional for SL-PRS transmission, as specified in 5.8.18.3;
4>	perform CBR measurement on the transmission resource pool(s) indicated by sl-PRS-TxPoolSelectedNormal or sl-PRS-TxPoolExceptional for SL-PRS transmission, as specified in 5.5.3.1;
4>	use the synchronization configuration parameters for NR sidelink positioning on frequencies included in sl-PosFreqInfoList, as specified in 5.8.5;
The UE should discard any stored segments for SIB23 if the complete SIB23 has not been assembled within a period of 3 hours. The UE shall discard any stored segments for SIB23 upon cell (re-)selection.
5.2.2.4.26	Actions upon reception of SIB24
No UE requirements related to the contents of SIB24 apply other than those specified elsewhere e.g., within procedures using the concerned system information, and/or within the corresponding field descriptions.
5.2.2.4.27	Actions upon reception of SIB25
No UE requirements related to the contents of SIB25 apply other than those specified elsewhere e.g. within procedures using the concerned system information, and/or within the corresponding field descriptions.
5.2.2.5	Essential system information missing
The UE shall:
1>	if in RRC_IDLE or in RRC_INACTIVE or in RRC_CONNECTED while T311 is running:
2>	if the UE is unable to acquire the MIB or SIB1:
3>	consider the cell as barred in accordance with TS 38.304 [20];
3>	perform cell re-selection to other cells on the same frequency as the barred cell as specified in TS 38.304 [20].
NOTE 1:	The SIB19 is essential for NTN access. If UE is unable to acquire the SIB19 for NTN access, the action is up to UE implementation (e.g., cell re-selection to other cells).
NOTE 2: The SIB22 is essential for ATG access. If UE is unable to acquire the SIB22 for ATG access, the action is up to UE implementation (e.g., cell re-selection to other cells).
5.2.2.6	T430 expiry
The UE shall:
1>	if T430 for serving cell expires and if in RRC_CONNECTED:
2>	inform lower layers that UL synchronisation is lost;
2>	acquire SIB19 as defined in clause 5.2.2.3.2;
2>	upon successful acquisition of SIB19:
3>	inform lower layers when UL synchronisation is obtained;
NOTE:	The exact time when UL synchronisation is obtained (after SIB19 is acquired) is left to UE implementation, which can be from the subframe indicated by epochTime and optionally before the subframe indicated by epochTime.
5.3	Connection control
5.3.1	Introduction
5.3.1.1	RRC connection control
RRC connection establishment involves the establishment of SRB1. The network completes RRC connection establishment prior to completing the establishment of the NG connection, i.e. prior to receiving the UE context information from the 5GC. Consequently, AS security is not activated during the initial phase of the RRC connection. During this initial phase of the RRC connection, the network may configure the UE to perform measurement reporting, but the UE only sends the corresponding measurement reports after successful AS security activation. However, the UE only accepts a re-configuration with sync message when AS security has been activated.
Upon receiving the UE context from the 5GC, the RAN activates AS security (both ciphering and integrity protection) using the initial AS security activation procedure. The RRC messages to activate AS security (command and successful response) are integrity protected, while ciphering is started only after completion of the procedure. That is, the response to the message used to activate AS security is not ciphered, while the subsequent messages (e.g. used to establish SRB2, DRBs and multicast MRBs) are both integrity protected and ciphered. After having initiated the initial AS security activation procedure, the network may initiate the establishment of SRB2 and DRBs and/or multicast MRBs, i.e. the network may do this prior to receiving the confirmation of the initial AS security activation from the UE. In any case, the network will apply both ciphering and integrity protection for the RRC reconfiguration messages used to establish SRB2, DRBs and/or multicast MRBs. The network should release the RRC connection if the initial AS security activation and/ or the radio bearer establishment fails. A configuration with SRB2 without DRB or multicast MRB, or with DRB or multicast MRB without SRB2 is not supported (i.e., SRB2 and at least one DRB or multicast MRB must be configured in the same RRC Reconfiguration message, and it is not allowed to release all the DRBs and multicast MRBs without releasing the RRC Connection). For IAB-MT and NCR-MT, a configuration with SRB2 without any DRB/MRB is supported.
The release of the RRC connection normally is initiated by the network. The procedure may be used to re-direct the UE to an NR frequency or an E-UTRA carrier frequency.
The suspension of the RRC connection is initiated by the network. When the RRC connection is suspended, the UE stores the UE Inactive AS context and any configuration received from the network, and transits to RRC_INACTIVE state. The RRC message to suspend the RRC connection is integrity protected and ciphered.
The resumption of a suspended RRC connection is initiated by upper layers when the UE needs to transit from RRC_INACTIVE state to RRC_CONNECTED state or by RRC layer to perform a RNA update or by RAN paging from NG-RAN or for SDT or for multicast reception. When the RRC connection is resumed, network configures the UE according to the RRC connection resume procedure based on the stored UE Inactive AS context and any RRC configuration received from the network. The RRC connection resume procedure re-activates AS security and re-establishes SRB(s) and DRB(s) and/or multicast MRB(s), if configured.
Upon initiating the resume procedure for SDT, AS security (both ciphering and integrity protection) is re-activated for SRB2 (if configured for SDT) and for SRB1. In addition, AS security is also re-activated (if security is configured) for all the DRBs configured for SDT. Further, the PDCP entities of SRB1 and PDCP entities of the radio bearers configured for SDT are re-established and resumed whilst the UE remains in RRC_INACTIVE state. Transmission and reception of data and/or signalling messages over radio bearers configured for SDT can happen whilst the UE is in RRC_INACTIVE state and SDT procedure is ongoing.
In response to a request to resume the RRC connection or in response to a resume procedure initiated for SDT, the network may resume the suspended RRC connection and send UE to RRC_CONNECTED, or reject the request to resume and send UE to RRC_INACTIVE (with a wait timer), or directly re-suspend the RRC connection and send UE to RRC_INACTIVE, or directly release the RRC connection and send UE to RRC_IDLE, or instruct the UE to initiate NAS level recovery (in this case the network sends an RRC setup message).
NOTE:	In case the UE receives the configurations for NR sidelink communication via the E-UTRA, the configurations for NR sidelink communication in SIB12 and sl-ConfigDedicatedNR within RRCReconfiguration used in clause 5.3 are provided by the configurations in SystemInformationBlockType28 and sl-ConfigDedicatedForNR within RRCConnectionReconfiguration as specified in TS 36.331[10], respectively.
5.3.1.2	AS Security
AS security comprises of the integrity protection and ciphering of RRC signalling (SRBs) and user data (DRBs).
RRC handles the configuration of the AS security parameters which are part of the AS configuration: the integrity protection algorithm, the ciphering algorithm, if integrity protection and/or ciphering is enabled for a DRB and two parameters, namely the keySetChangeIndicator and the nextHopChainingCount, which are used by the UE to determine the AS security keys upon reconfiguration with sync (with key change), connection re-establishment and/or connection resume.
The integrity protection algorithm is common for SRB1, SRB2, SRB3 (if configured), SRB4 (if configured), SRB5 (if configured) and DRBs configured with integrity protection, with the same keyToUse value. The ciphering algorithm is common for SRB1, SRB2, SRB3 (if configured), SRB4 (if configured), SRB5 (if configured) and DRBs configured with the same keyToUse value. Neither integrity protection nor ciphering applies for SRB0.
NOTE 0:	All DRBs related to the same PDU session have the same enable/disable setting for ciphering and the same enable/disable setting for integrity protection, as specified in TS 33.501 [11].
RRC integrity protection and ciphering are always activated together, i.e. in one message/procedure. RRC integrity protection and ciphering for SRBs are never de-activated. However, it is possible to switch to a 'NULL' ciphering algorithm (nea0).
The 'NULL' integrity protection algorithm (nia0) is used only for SRBs and for the UE in limited service mode, see TS 33.501 [11] and when used for SRBs, integrity protection is disabled for DRBs. In case the ′NULL' integrity protection algorithm is used, 'NULL' ciphering algorithm is also used.
NOTE 1:	Lower layers discard RRC messages for which the integrity protection check has failed and indicate the integrity protection verification check failure to RRC.
The AS applies four different security keys: one for the integrity protection of RRC signalling (KRRCint), one for the ciphering of RRC signalling (KRRCenc), one for integrity protection of user data (KUPint) and one for the ciphering of user data (KUPenc). All four AS keys are derived from the KgNB key. The KgNB key is based on the KAMF key (as specified in TS 33.501 [11]), which is handled by upper layers.
The integrity protection and ciphering algorithms can only be changed with reconfiguration with sync. The AS keys (KgNB, KRRCint, KRRCenc, KUPint and KUPenc) change upon reconfiguration with sync (if masterKeyUpdate is included), and upon connection re-establishment and connection resume.
For each radio bearer an independent counter (COUNT, as specified in TS 38.323 [5]) is maintained for each direction. For each radio bearer, the COUNT is used as input for ciphering and integrity protection.
It is not allowed to use the same COUNT value more than once for a given security key. As specified in TS 33.501 clause 6.9.4.1 [11], the network is responsible for avoiding reuse of the COUNT with the same RB identity and with the same key, e.g. due to the transfer of large volumes of data, release and establishment of new RBs, and multiple termination point changes for RLC-UM bearers and multiple termination point changes for RLC-AM bearer with SN terminated PDCP re-establishment (COUNT reset) due to SN only full configuration whilst the key stream inputs (i.e. bearer ID, security key) at MN have not been updated. In order to avoid such re-use, the network may e.g. use different RB identities for RB establishments, change the AS security key, or an RRC_CONNECTED to RRC_IDLE/RRC_INACTIVE and then to RRC_CONNECTED transition.
In order to limit the signalling overhead, individual messages/ packets include a short sequence number (PDCP SN, as specified in TS 38.323 [5]). In addition, an overflow counter mechanism is used: the hyper frame number (HFN, as specified in TS 38.323 [5]). The HFN needs to be synchronized between the UE and the network.
For each SRB, the value provided by RRC to lower layers to derive the 5-bit BEARER parameter used as input for ciphering and for integrity protection is the value of the corresponding srb-Identity with the MSBs padded with zeroes.
For a UE provided with an sk-counter, keyToUse indicates whether the UE uses the master key (KgNB) or the secondary key (S-KeNB or S-KgNB) for a particular DRB. The secondary key is derived from the master key and sk-Counter, as defined in TS 33.501[11]. Whenever there is a need to refresh the secondary key, e.g. upon change of MN with KgNB change or to avoid COUNT reuse, the security key update is used (see 5.3.5.7). When the UE is in NR-DC, the network may provide a UE configured with an SCG with an sk-Counter even when no DRB is setup using the secondary key (S-KgNB) in order to allow the configuration of SRB3. The network can also provide the UE with an sk-Counter, even if no SCG is configured, when using SN terminated MCG bearers.
5.3.2	Paging
5.3.2.1	General

Figure 5.3.2.1-1: Paging
The purpose of this procedure is:
-	to transmit paging information to a UE in RRC_IDLE or RRC_INACTIVE.
-	to transmit paging information for a L2 U2N Remote UE in RRC_IDLE or RRC_INACTIVE to its serving L2 U2N Relay UE in any RRC state.
5.3.2.2	Initiation
The network initiates the paging procedure by transmitting the Paging message at the UE's paging occasion as specified in TS 38.304 [20]. The network may address multiple UEs within a Paging message by including one PagingRecord for each UE. The network may also include one or multiple TMGI(s) in the Paging message to page UEs for specific MBS multicast session(s).
5.3.2.3	Reception of the Paging message by the UE or PagingRecord by the L2 U2N Remote UE
Upon receiving the Paging message by the UE or receiving PagingRecord from its connected L2 U2N Relay UE by a L2 U2N Remote UE, the UE shall:
1>	if in RRC_IDLE, for each of the PagingRecord, if any, included in the Paging message, or
1>	if in RRC_IDLE, for the PagingRecord, if any, included in the UuMessageTransferSidelink message received from the connected L2 U2N Relay UE:
2>	if the ue-Identity included in the PagingRecord matches the UE identity allocated by upper layers:
3>	if upper layers indicate the support of paging cause:
4>	forward the ue-Identity, accessType (if present) and paging cause (if determined) to the upper layers;
3>	else:
4>	forward the ue-Identity and accessType (if present) to the upper layers;
NOTE 1:	If the L2 U2N Relay UE supports the MUSIM feature, it can forward the paging cause to the connected L2 U2N Remote UE.
1>	if in RRC_INACTIVE, for each of the PagingRecord, if any, included in the Paging message, or
1>	if in RRC_INACTIVE, for the PagingRecord, if any, included in the UuMessageTransferSidelink message received from the connected L2 U2N Relay UE:
2>	if the ue-Identity included in the PagingRecord matches the UE's stored fullI-RNTI:
3>	if the UE is configured by upper layers with Access Identity 1:
4>	initiate the RRC connection resumption procedure according to 5.3.13 with resumeCause set to mps-PriorityAccess;
3>	else if the UE is configured by upper layers with Access Identity 2:
4>	initiate the RRC connection resumption procedure according to 5.3.13 with resumeCause set to mcs-PriorityAccess;
3>	else if the UE is configured by upper layers with one or more Access Identities equal to 11-15:
4>	initiate the RRC connection resumption procedure according to 5.3.13 with resumeCause set to highPriorityAccess;
3>	else if mt-SDT indication was included in the Paging message and if the conditions for initiating SDT for a resume procedure initiated in response to RAN paging according to 5.3.13.1b are fulfilled:
4>	if pagingGroupList was not included in the Paging message; or
4>	if pagingGroupList was included in the Paging message but the UE has not joined any MBS session(s) indicated by the TMGI(s) included in the pagingGroupList; or
4>	if pagingGroupList was included in the Paging message, all the MBS session(s) indicated by the TMGI(s) included in the pagingGroupList that the UE has joined are configured to be received in RRC_INACTIVE, and inactiveReceptionAllowed was included for all these MBS session(s):
5>	initiate the RRC connection resumption procedure according to 5.3.13 with resumeCause set to mt-SDT;
NOTE 1a:	If a UE receives a Paging message including mt-SDT indication and inactiveReceptionAllowed indications for all the multicast session(s) the UE has joined and the UE initiates RRC connection resume, the UE starts monitoring the corresponding G-RNTI(s), if configured, and if multicast MCCH is present, the UE starts monitoring the Multicast MCCH-RNTI and acquires the MBSMulticastConfiguration message on multicast MCCH.
4>	else:
5>	initiate the RRC connection resumption procedure according to 5.3.13 with resumeCause set to mt-Access;
3>	else:
4>	initiate the RRC connection resumption procedure according to 5.3.13 with resumeCause set to mt-Access;
NOTE 2:	If both conditions for initiating MT-SDT and MO-SDT according to 5.3.13.1b are fulfilled, UE may initiate RRC connection resumption procedure for MT-SDT or MO-SDT based on implementation.
NOTE 3:	A MUSIM UE may not initiate the RRC connection resumption procedure, e.g. when it decides not to respond to the Paging message due to UE implementation constraints as specified in TS 24.501 [23].
2>	else if the ue-Identity included in the PagingRecord matches the UE identity allocated by upper layers:
3>	if upper layers indicate the support of paging cause:
4>	forward the ue-Identity, accessType (if present) and paging cause (if determined) to the upper layers;
3>	else:
4>	forward the ue-Identity and accessType (if present) to the upper layers;
3>	perform the actions upon going to RRC_IDLE as specified in 5.3.11 with release cause 'other';
1>	if in RRC_IDLE, for each TMGI included in pagingGroupList, if any, included in the Paging message:
2>	if the UE has joined an MBS session indicated by the TMGI included in the pagingGroupList:
3>	forward the TMGI to the upper layers;
1>	if in RRC_INACTIVE and the UE has joined one or more MBS session(s) indicated by the TMGI(s) included in the pagingGroupList:
2>	if PagingRecordList is not included in the Paging message; or
2>	if none of the ue-Identity included in any of the PagingRecord matches the UE identity allocated by upper layers or the UE's stored fullI-RNTI:
3>	if the UE is not configured to receive multicast in RRC_INACTIVE for at least one of the MBS sessions indicated by the TMGI(s) included in pagingGroupList that the UE has joined; or
3>	if inactiveReceptionAllowed is not included for at least one of the MBS sessions indicated by the TMGI(s) included in pagingGroupList that the UE has joined:
4>	initiate the RRC connection resumption procedure according to 5.3.13.1d;
3>	else:
4>	start monitoring the G-RNTI(s), if configured, corresponding to the TMGI(s);
4> if the UE was notified to stop monitoring the G-RNTI(s) for all the joined multicast sessions that are configured for reception in RRC_INACTIVE:
5>	apply the multicast PTM configuration provided in RRCRelease;
5>	if multicast MCCH is present:
6>	start monitoring the Multicast MCCH-RNTI;
6>	acquire the MBSMulticastConfiguration message on multicast MCCH;
4>	else if the UE was notified to stop monitoring the G-RNTI for at least one of the multicast sessions indicated by the TMGI(s) included in pagingGroupList for which the PTM configuration was not included in RRCRelease message:
5>	apply the multicast PTM configuration provided in RRCRelease;
5>	acquire the MBSMulticastConfiguration message on multicast MCCH;
2>	else if the ue-Identity included in any of the PagingRecord matches the UE identity allocated by upper layers:
3>	forward the TMGI(s) to the upper layers;
1>	if the UE is acting as a L2 U2N Relay UE, for each of the PagingRecord, if any, included in the Paging message:
2>	if the ue-Identity included in the PagingRecord in the Paging message matches the UE identity in sl-PagingIdentityRemoteUE included in sl-PagingInfo-RemoteUE received in RemoteUEInformationSidelink message from a L2 U2N Remote UE:
3>	inititate the Uu Message transfer in sidelink to that UE as specified in 5.8.9.9;
5.3.3	RRC connection establishment
5.3.3.1	General

Figure 5.3.3.1-1: RRC connection establishment, successful

Figure 5.3.3.1-2: RRC connection establishment, network reject
The purpose of this procedure is to establish an RRC connection. RRC connection establishment involves SRB1 establishment. The procedure is also used to transfer the initial NAS dedicated information/ message from the UE to the network.
The network applies the procedure e.g.as follows:
-	When establishing an RRC connection;
-	When UE is resuming or re-establishing an RRC connection, and the network is not able to retrieve or verify the UE context. In this case, UE receives RRCSetup and responds with RRCSetupComplete.
5.3.3.1a	Conditions for establishing RRC Connection for NR sidelink communication/discovery/V2X sidelink communication/MP operation
For NR sidelink communication/discovery, an RRC connection establishment is initiated only in the following cases:
1>	if configured by upper layers to transmit NR sidelink communication and related data is available for transmission:
2>	if the frequency on which the UE is configured to transmit NR sidelink communication is included in sl-FreqInfoList/sl-FreqInfoListSizeExt within SIB12 provided by the cell on which the UE camps; and if the valid version of SIB12 does not include sl-TxPoolSelectedNormal for the concerned frequency;
1>	if configured by upper layers to transmit NR sidelink discovery and related data is available for transmission:
2>	if the UE is configured by upper layers to transmit NR sidelink L2 U2U relay discovery messages and sl-L2-U2U-Relay-r18 is included in SIB12; or
2>	if the UE is configured by upper layers to transmit NR sidelink L3 U2U relay discovery messages and sl-L3-U2U-RelayDiscovery is included in SIB12; or
2>	if the UE is configured by upper layers to transmit NR sidelink L2 U2N relay discovery messages and sl-L2U2N-Relay is included in SIB12; or
2>	if the UE is configured by upper layers to transmit NR sidelink L3 U2N relay discovery messages and sl-L3U2N-RelayDiscovery is included in SIB12; or
2>	if the UE is configured by upper layers to transmit NR sidelink non-relay discovery messages and sl-NonRelayDiscovery is included in SIB12:
3>	if the frequency on which the UE is configured to transmit NR sidelink discovery is included in sl-FreqInfoList within SIB12 provided by the cell on which the UE camps; and if the valid version of SIB12 includes neither sl-DiscTxPoolSelected nor sl-TxPoolSelectedNormal for the concerned frequency;
For L2 U2N Relay UE in RRC_IDLE, an RRC connection establishment is initiated in the following cases:
1>	if any message is received from a L2 U2N Remote UE via SL-RLC0 as specified in 9.1.1.4 or SL-RLC1 as specified in 9.2.4; or
1>	if RemoteUEInformationSidelink containing the connectionForMP is received from a L2 U2N Remote UE as specified in 5.8.9.8.3;
For V2X sidelink communication, an RRC connection is initiated only when the conditions specified for V2X sidelink communication in clause 5.3.3.1a of TS 36.331 [10] are met.
NOTE 1:	Upper layers initiate an RRC connection (except if the RRC connection is initiated at the L2 U2N Relay UE upon reception of a message from a L2 U2N Remote UE via SL-RLC0 or SL-RLC1, or upon reception of RemoteUEInformationSidelink message containing the connectionForMP). The interaction with NAS is left to UE implementation.
For N3C relay UE in RRC_IDLE, an RRC connection establishment is initiated when a N3C remote UE indicates it to enter RRC_CONNECTED state.
NOTE 2:	How/when the N3C remote UE to indicate N3C relay UE to enter RRC_CONNECTED state is left to UE implementation, e.g. before reporting relay UE information with non-3GPP connection(s).
5.3.3.1b	Void
5.3.3.2	Initiation
The UE initiates the procedure when upper layers request establishment of an RRC connection while the UE is in RRC_IDLE and it has acquired essential system information, or for sidelink communication as specified in clause 5.3.3.1a.
The UE shall ensure having valid and up to date essential system information as specified in clause 5.2.2.2 before initiating this procedure.
Upon initiation of the procedure, the UE shall:
1>	if the upper layers provide an Access Category and one or more Access Identities upon requesting establishment of an RRC connection:
2>	perform the unified access control procedure as specified in 5.3.14 using the Access Category and Access Identities provided by upper layers;
3>	if the access attempt is barred, the procedure ends;
1>	if the upper layers provide NSAG information and one or more S-NSSAI(s) triggering the access attempt (TS 23.501 [32] and TS 24.501 [23]):
2>	apply the NSAG with highest NSAG priority among the NSAGs that are included in SIB1 (i.e., in FeatureCombination and/or in RA-PrioritizationSliceInfo), and that are associated with the S-NSSAI(s) triggering the access attempt, in the Random Access procedure (TS 38.321 [3], clause 5.1);
NOTE:	If there are multiple NSAGs with the same highest NAS-provided NSAG priority identified for access attempt as above, it is left to UE implementation to select the NSAG to be applied in the Random Access procedure.
1>	if the UE is acting as L2 U2N Remote UE:
2>	establish a SRAP entity as specified in TS 38.351 [66], if no SRAP entity has been established;
2>	apply the specified configuration of SL-RLC0 as specified in 9.1.1.4;
2>	apply the SDAP configuration and PDCP configuration as specified in 9.1.1.2 for SRB0;
1>	else:
2>	apply the default L1 parameter values as specified in corresponding physical layer specifications except for the parameters for which values are provided in SIB1;
2>	apply the default MAC Cell Group configuration as specified in 9.2.2;
2>	apply the CCCH configuration as specified in 9.1.1.2;
2>	apply the timeAlignmentTimerCommon included in SIB1;
1>	start timer T300;
1>	initiate transmission of the RRCSetupRequest message in accordance with 5.3.3.3;
5.3.3.3	Actions related to transmission of RRCSetupRequest message
The UE shall set the contents of RRCSetupRequest message as follows:
1>	set the ue-Identity as follows:
2>	if upper layers provide a 5G-S-TMSI:
3>	set the ue-Identity to ng-5G-S-TMSI-Part1;
2>	else:
3>	draw a 39-bit random value in the range 0..239-1 and set the ue-Identity to this value;
NOTE 1:	Upper layers provide the 5G-S-TMSI if the UE is registered in the TA of the current cell.
1>	if the establishment of the RRC connection is the result of release with redirect with mpsPriorityIndication (either in NR or E-UTRAN):
2>	set the establishmentCause to mps-PriorityAccess;
1>	else:
2>	set the establishmentCause in accordance with the information received from upper layers;
NOTE 2:	In case the L2 U2N Relay UE initiates RRC connection establishment triggered either by reception of message from a L2 U2N Remote UE via SL-RLC0 or SL-RLC1, or by reception of message RemoteUEInformationSidelink containing the connectionForMP, as specified in 5.3.3.1a, the L2 U2N Relay UE sets the establishmentCause by implementation, but: (1) for SL-RLC0, it can only set the emergency, mps-PriorityAccess, or mcs-PriorityAccess as establishmentCause if the same cause value is in the message received from the L2 U2N Remote UE via SL-RLC0; and (2) for SL-RLC1, it sets the establishmentCause to emergency if the message received from the L2 U2N Remote UE via SL-RLC1 is over PC5 link established for emergency service as indicated by upper layer [72].
1>	if ta-Report or ta-ReportATG is configured with value enabled and the UE supports TA reporting:
2>	indicate TA report initiation to lower layers;
The UE shall submit the RRCSetupRequest message to lower layers for transmission.
If the UE is an (e)RedCap UE and the RedCap-specific initial downlink BWP is not associated with CD-SSB, the UE may continue cell re-selection related measurements as well as cell re-selection evaluation, otherwise the UE shall continue cell re-selection related measurements as well as cell re-selection evaluation. If the conditions for cell re-selection are fulfilled, the UE shall perform cell re-selection as specified in 5.3.3.6.
NOTE 3:	For L2 U2N Remote UE in RRC_IDLE, the cell (re)selection procedure as specified in TS 38.304 [20] and relay (re)selection procedure as specified in 5.8.15.3 are performed independently and up to UE implementation to select either a cell or a L2 U2N Relay UE.
5.3.3.4	Reception of the RRCSetup by the UE
The UE shall perform the following actions upon reception of the RRCSetup:
1>	if the RRCSetup is received in response to an RRCReestablishmentRequest; or
1>	if the RRCSetup is received in response to an RRCResumeRequest or RRCResumeRequest1:
2>	if the UE is NCR-MT:
3>	indicate to NCR-Fwd to cease forwarding;
2>	if sdt-MAC-PHY-CG-Config is configured:
3>	instruct the MAC entity to stop the cg-SDT-TimeAlignmentTimer, if it is running;
3>	instruct the MAC entity to start the timeAlignmentTimer associated with the PTAG indicated by tag-Id, if it is not running;
2>	if srs-PosRRC-Inactive is configured:
3>	instruct the MAC entity to stop the inactivePosSRS-TimeAlignmentTimer, if it is running;
2>	if srs-PosRRC-InactiveValidityAreaPreConfigList or srs-PosRRC-InactiveValidityAreaNonPreConfig is configured:
3>	instruct the MAC entity to stop the inactivePosSRS-ValidityAreaTAT, if it is running;
2>	if the UE is configured to receive MBS multicast in RRC_INACTIVE:
3>	reset MAC;
2>	discard any stored UE Inactive AS context and suspendConfig;
2>	discard any current AS security context including the KRRCenc key, the KRRCint key, the KUPint key and the KUPenc key;
2>	release radio resources for all established RBs except SRB0 and broadcast MRBs, including release of the RLC entities, of the associated PDCP entities and of SDAP;
2>	release the RRC configuration except for the default L1 parameter values, default MAC Cell Group configuration, CCCH configuration and broadcast MRBs;
2>	indicate to upper layers fallback of the RRC connection;
2>	for each application layer measurement configuration with appLayerIdleInactiveConfig absent:
3>	forward the measConfigAppLayerId and inform upper layers about the release of the application layer measurement configuration;
3>	release the application layer measurement configuration;
3>	discard any application layer measurement reports which were not yet fully submitted to lower layers for transmission;
3>	consider itself not to be configured to send application layer measurement reports for the measConfigAppLayerId;
2>	stop timer T380, if running;
1>	perform the cell group configuration procedure in accordance with the received masterCellGroup and as specified in 5.3.5.5;
1>	perform the radio bearer configuration procedure in accordance with the received radioBearerConfig and as specified in 5.3.5.6;
1>	if stored, discard the cell reselection priority information provided by the cellReselectionPriorities or inherited from another RAT;
1>	stop timer T300, T301, T319;
1>	if T319a is running:
2>	stop T319a;
2>	consider SDT procedure is not ongoing;
1>	if T390 is running:
2>	stop timer T390 for all access categories;
2>	perform the actions as specified in 5.3.14.4;
1>	if T302 is running:
2>	stop timer T302;
2>	perform the actions as specified in 5.3.14.4;
1>	stop timer T320, if running;
1>	if the RRCSetup is received in response to an RRCResumeRequest, RRCResumeRequest1 or RRCSetupRequest:
2>	if T331 is running:
3>	stop timer T331;
3>	perform the actions as specified in 5.7.8.3;
2>	enter RRC_CONNECTED;
2>	stop the cell re-selection procedure;
2>	stop relay (re)selection procedure if any for L2 U2N Remote UE;
1>	consider the current cell to be the PCell;
1>	perform the L2 U2N Remote UE configuration procedure in accordance with the received sl-L2RemoteUE-Config as specified in 5.3.5.16;
1>	perform the sidelink dedicated configuration procedure in accordance with the received sl-ConfigDedicatedNR as specified in 5.3.5.14;
1>	if the UE has radio link failure or handover failure information available in VarRLF-Report and if the RPLMN is included in plmn-IdentityList stored in VarRLF-Report; or
1>	if the UE has radio link failure or handover failure information available in VarRLF-Report and if the current registered SNPN identity is included in snpn-IdentityList stored in VarRLF-Report:
2>	if reconnectCellId in VarRLF-Report is not set after failing to perform reestablishment and if this is the first RRCSetup received by the UE after declaring the failure:
3>	if the UE supports RLF-Report for conditional handover and if choCellId in VarRLF-Report is set:
4>	set timeUntilReconnection in VarRLF-Report to the time that elapsed since the radio link failure or handover failure experienced in the failedPCellId stored in VarRLF-Report;
3>	else:
4>	set timeUntilReconnection in VarRLF-Report to the time that elapsed since the last radio link failure or handover failure;
3>	set nrReconnectCellId in reconnectCellId in VarRLF-Report to the global cell identity and the tracking area code of the PCell;
1>	if the UE supports RLF report for inter-RAT MRO NR as defined in TS 36.306 [62], and if the UE has radio link failure or handover failure information available in VarRLF-Report of TS 36.331 [10] and if the RPLMN is included in plmn-IdentityList stored in VarRLF-Report of TS 36.331 [10]:
2>	if reconnectCellId in VarRLF-Report of TS 36.331[10] is not set after failing to perform reestablishment and if this is the first RRCSetup received by the UE after declaring the failure:
3>	set timeUntilReconnection in VarRLF-Report of TS 36.331[10] to the time that elapsed since the last radio link failure or handover failure in LTE;
3>	set nrReconnectCellId in reconnectCellId in VarRLF-Report of TS 36.331[10] to the global cell identity and the tracking area code of the PCell;
1>	for each application layer measurement configuration with appLayerIdleInactiveConfig configured:
2>	if the RPLMN is not included in plmn-IdentityList in VarAppLayerPLMN-ListConfig:
3>	forward the measConfigAppLayerId and inform upper layers about the release of the application layer measurement configuration;
3>	release the application layer measurement configuration including its fields in the UE variables VarAppLayerIdleConfig and VarAppLayerPLMN-ListConfig;
3>	discard any application layer measurement reports which were not yet fully submitted to lower layers for transmission;
3>	consider itself not to be configured to send application layer measurement reports for the measConfigAppLayerId;
1>	set the content of RRCSetupComplete message as follows:
2>	if upper layers provide a 5G-S-TMSI:
3>	if the RRCSetup is received in response to an RRCSetupRequest:
4>	set the ng-5G-S-TMSI-Value to ng-5G-S-TMSI-Part2;
3>	else:
4>	set the ng-5G-S-TMSI-Value to ng-5G-S-TMSI;
2>	if upper layers selected an SNPN or a PLMN and in case of PLMN UE is either allowed or instructed to access the PLMN via a cell for which at least one CAG ID is broadcast:
3>	set the selectedPLMN-Identity from the npn-IdentityInfoList;
2>	else:
3>	set the selectedPLMN-Identity to the PLMN selected by upper layers from the plmn-IdentityInfoList;
2>	if upper layers provide the 'Registered AMF':
3>	include and set the registeredAMF as follows:
4>	if the PLMN identity of the 'Registered AMF' is different from the PLMN selected by the upper layers:
5>	include the plmnIdentity in the registeredAMF and set it to the value of the PLMN identity in the 'Registered AMF' received from upper layers;
4>	set the amf-Identifier to the value received from upper layers;
3>	include and set the guami-Type to the value provided by the upper layers;
2>	if upper layers provide one or more S-NSSAI (see TS 23.003 [21]):
3>	include the s-NSSAI-List and set the content to the values provided by the upper layers;
2>	if upper layers provide onboarding request indication:
3>	include the onboardingRequest;
2>	set the dedicatedNAS-Message to include the information received from upper layers;
2>	if connecting as an IAB-node but not as a mobile IAB-node:
3>	include the iab-NodeIndication;
2>	else if connecting as a mobile IAB-node:
3>	include the mobileIAB-NodeIndication;
2>	if connecting as an NCR-node:
3>	include the ncr-NodeIndication;
2>	if the SIB1 contains idleModeMeasurementsNR and the UE has NR idle/inactive measurement information concerning cells other than the PCell available in VarMeasIdleReport; or
2>	if the SIB1 contains idleModeMeasurementsEUTRA and the UE has E-UTRA idle/inactive measurement information available in VarMeasIdleReport:
3>	include the idleMeasAvailable;
2>	if the SIB1 contains reselectionMeasurementsNR:
3>	if measReselectionCarrierListNR is present in VarMeasReselectionConfig and the UE has NR reselection measurements available for any frequency listed in measReselectionCarrierListNR in VarMeasReselectionConfig; or
3>	if measReselectionCarrierListNR is not present in VarMeasReselectionConfig and if the UE has NR reselection measurements available:
4>	include the reselectionMeasAvailable;
2>	if the UE has logged measurements available for NR and if the RPLMN is included in plmn-IdentityList stored in VarLogMeasReport; or
2>	if the UE has logged measurements available for NR and if the current registered SNPN identity is included in snpn-ConfigID-List stored in VarLogMeasReport:
3>	include the logMeasAvailable in the RRCSetupComplete message;
3>	if Bluetooth measurement results are included in the logged measurements the UE has available for NR:
4>	include the logMeasAvailableBT in the RRCSetupComplete message;
3>	if WLAN measurement results are included in the logged measurements the UE has available for NR:
4>	include the logMeasAvailableWLAN in the RRCSetupComplete message;
2>	if the sigLoggedMeasType in VarLogMeasReport is included; or
2>	if the UE supports the override protection of the signalling based logged MDT for inter-RAT (i.e. LTE to NR), and if the sigLoggedMeasType in VarLogMeasReport of TS 36.331 [10] is included:
3>	if T330 timer is running (associated to the logged measurement configuration for NR or for LTE):
4>	set sigLogMeasConfigAvailable to true in the RRCSetupComplete message;
3>	else:
4>	if the UE has logged measurements in VarLogMeasReport or in VarLogMeasReport of TS 36.331 [10]:
5>	set sigLogMeasConfigAvailable to false in the RRCSetupComplete message;
2>	if the UE has connection establishment failure or connection resume failure information available in VarConnEstFailReport or VarConnEstFailReportList and if the RPLMN is equal to plmn-Identity stored in VarConnEstFailReport or in at least one of the entries of VarConnEstFailReportList; or
2>	if the UE has connection establishment failure information or connection resume failure information available in VarConnEstFailReport or VarConnEstFailReportList and if the current registered SNPN identity is equal to snpn-Identity stored in VarConnEstFailReport or any entry of VarConnEstFailReportList:
3>	include connEstFailInfoAvailable in the RRCSetupComplete message;
2>	if the UE has radio link failure or handover failure information available in VarRLF-Report and if the RPLMN is included in plmn-IdentityList stored in VarRLF-Report, or
2>	if the UE has radio link failure or handover failure information available in VarRLF-Report of TS 36.331 [10], and if the UE is capable of cross-RAT RLF reporting and if the RPLMN is included in plmn-IdentityList stored in VarRLF-Report of TS 36.331 [10]; or
2>	if the UE has radio link failure or handover failure information available in VarRLF-Report and if the current registered SNPN identity is included in snpn-IdentityList stored in the VarRLF-Report:
3>	include rlf-InfoAvailable in the RRCSetupComplete message;
2>	if the UE has successful handover information available in VarSuccessHO-Report and if the RPLMN is included in plmn-IdentityList stored in VarSuccessHO-Report; or
2>	if the UE has successful handover information available in VarSuccessHO-Report and if the current registered SNPN identity is included in snpn-IdentityList stored in the VarSuccessHO-Report:
3>	include successHO-InfoAvailable in the RRCSetupComplete message;
2>	if the UE has successful PSCell change or addition information available in VarSuccessPSCell-Report and if the RPLMN is included in plmn-IdentityList stored in VarSuccessPSCell-Report; or
2>	if the UE has successful PSCell change or addition information available in VarSuccessPSCell-Report and if the current registered SNPN identity is included in snpn-IdentityList stored in the VarSuccessPSCell-Report:
3>	include successPSCell-InfoAvailable in the RRCSetupComplete message;
2>	if the UE supports storage of mobility history information and the UE has mobility history information available in VarMobilityHistoryReport:
3>	include the mobilityHistoryAvail in the RRCSetupComplete message;
2>	if the UE has at least one stored application layer measurement configuration with appLayerIdleInactiveConfig configured:
3>	include measConfigReportAppLayerAvailable in the RRCSetupComplete message;
2>	if the UE supports uplink RRC message segmentation of UECapabilityInformation according to the network indication rrc-SegAllowed:
3>	may include the ul-RRC-Segmentation in the RRCSetupComplete message;
2>	if the UE supports uplink RRC message segmentation of UECapabilityInformation according to the network indication rrc-MaxCapaSegAllowed:
3>	include the ul-RRC-MaxCapaSegments in the RRCSetupComplete message;
2>	if the RRCSetup is received in response to an RRCResumeRequest, RRCResumeRequest1 or RRCSetupRequest:
3>	if speedStateReselectionPars is configured in the SIB2:
4>	include the mobilityState in the RRCSetupComplete message and set it to the mobility state (as specified in TS 38.304 [20]) of the UE just prior to entering RRC_CONNECTED state;
2>	if SIB1 contains musim-CapRestrictionAllowed:
3>	if supported, include the musim-CapRestrictionInd in the RRCSetupComplete message upon determining it has temporary capability restriction;
2>	if the UE has flight path information available:
3>	include flightPathInfoAvailable;
1>	submit the RRCSetupComplete message to lower layers for transmission, upon which the procedure ends.
NOTE:	Upon reception of musim-CapRestrictionInd in RRCSetupComplete, it is up to network implementation to configure the UE with a limited configuration that is used until network sends RRCReconfiguration based on the actual restricted UE capabilities included in UEAssistanceInformation.
5.3.3.5	Reception of the RRCReject by the UE
The UE shall:
1>	perform the actions as specified in 5.3.15;
5.3.3.6	Cell re-selection or cell selection or relay (re)selection while T390, T300 or T302 is running (UE in RRC_IDLE)
The UE shall:
1>	if cell reselection occurs while T300 or T302 is running; or
1>	if relay (re)selection or cell selection by a L2 U2N Remote UE occurs while T300 is running; or
1>	if cell changes due to relay (re)selection or cell selection by a L2 U2N Remote UE while T302 is running:
2>	perform the actions upon going to RRC_IDLE as specified in 5.3.11 with release cause 'RRC connection failure';
1>	else:
2>	if cell selection or reselection occurs while T390 is running; or
2>	cell change due to relay selection or reselection occurs while T390 is running:
3>	stop T390 for all access categories;
3>	perform the actions as specified in 5.3.14.4.
5.3.3.7	T300 expiry
The UE shall:
1>	if timer T300 expires:
2>	reset MAC, release the MAC configuration and re-establish RLC for all RBs that are established (except broadcast MRBs);
2>	if the UE supports RRC Connection Establishment failure with temporary offset and the T300 has expired a consecutive connEstFailCount times on the same cell for which connEstFailureControl is included in SIB1:
3>	for a period as indicated by connEstFailOffsetValidity:
4>	use connEstFailOffset for the parameter Qoffsettemp for the concerned cell when performing cell selection and reselection according to TS 38.304 [20] and TS 36.304 [27];
NOTE 1:	When performing cell selection, if no suitable or acceptable cell can be found, it is up to UE implementation whether to stop using connEstFailOffset for the parameter Qoffsettemp during connEstFailOffsetValidity for the concerned cell.
2>	if the UE supports multiple CEF report:
3>	if the UE is not in SNPN access mode and if the UE has connection establishment failure information or connection resume failure information available in VarConnEstFailReport and if the RPLMN is equal to plmn-identity in networkIdentity stored in VarConnEstFailReport; or
3>	if the UE is in SNPN access mode and if the UE has connection establishment failure information or connection resume failure information available in VarConnEstFailReport and if the registered SNPN identity is equal to snpn-Identity in networkIdentity stored in VarConnEstFailReport:
4>	if the cell identity of current cell is not equal to the cell identity stored in measResultFailedCell in VarConnEstFailReport and if the maxCEFReport-r17 has not been reached:
5>	append the VarConnEstFailReport as a new entry in the VarConnEstFailReportList;
2>	if the UE is not in SNPN access mode and if the UE has connection establishment failure information or connection resume failure information available in VarConnEstFailReport and if the RPLMN is not equal to plmn-identity in networkIdentity stored in VarConnEstFailReport; or
2>	if the UE is in SNPN access mode and if the UE has connection establishment failure information or connection resume failure information available in VarConnEstFailReport and if the registered SNPN identity is not equal to snpn-Identity in networkIdentity stored in VarConnEstFailReport; or
2>	if the cell identity of current cell is not equal to the cell identity stored in measResultFailedCell in VarConnEstFailReport:
3>	reset the numberOfConnFail to 0;
2>	if the UE supports multiple CEF report and if the UE has connection establishment failure information or connection resume failure information available in VarConnEstFailReportList and if the RPLMN is not equal to plmn-identity in networkIdentity stored in any entry of VarConnEstFailReportList;or
2>	if the UE supports multiple CEF report and if the UE has connection establishment failure information or connection resume failure information available in VarConnEstFailReportList and if the registered SNPN identity is not equal to snpn-Identity in networkIdentity stored in any entry of VarConnEstFailReportList:
3>	clear the content included in VarConnEstFailReportList;
2>	clear the content included in VarConnEstFailReport except for the numberOfConnFail, if any;
2>	store the following connection establishment failure information in the VarConnEstFailReport by setting its fields as follows:
3>	if the UE is not in SNPN access mode:
4>	set the plmn-Identity in networkIdentity to the PLMN selected by upper layers (see TS 24.501 [23]) from the PLMN(s) included in the plmn-IdentityInfoList in SIB1;
3>	else if the UE is in SNPN access mode:
4>	set the snpn-Identity in networkIdentity to include the SNPN identity selected by upper layers (see TS 24.501 [23]) from the list of SNPN(s) included in the npn-IdentityInfoList in SIB1;
3>	set the measResultFailedCell to include the global cell identity, tracking area code, the cell level and SS/PBCH block level RSRP, and RSRQ, and SS/PBCH block indexes, of the failed cell based on the available SSB measurements collected up to the moment the UE detected connection establishment failure;
3>	if available, set the measResultNeighCells, in order of decreasing ranking-criterion as used for cell re-selection, to include neighbouring cell measurements for at most the following number of neighbouring cells: 6 intra-frequency and 3 inter-frequency neighbours per frequency as well as 3 inter-RAT neighbours, per frequency/ set of frequencies per RAT and according to the following:
4>	for each neighbour cell included, include the optional fields that are available;
NOTE 2:	The UE includes the latest results of the available measurements as used for cell reselection evaluation, which are performed in accordance with the performance requirements as specified in TS 38.133 [14].
3>	if available, set the locationInfo as follows:
4>	if available, set the commonLocationInfo to include the detailed location information;
4>	if available, set the bt-LocationInfo to include the Bluetooth measurement results, in order of decreasing RSSI for Bluetooth beacons;
4>	if available, set the wlan-LocationInfo to include the WLAN measurement results, in order of decreasing RSSI for WLAN APs;
4>	if available, set the sensor-LocationInfo to include the sensor measurement results as follows;
5>	if available, include the sensor-MeasurementInformation;
5>	if available, include the sensor-MotionInformation;
NOTE 3:	Which location information related configuration is used by the UE to make the locationInfo available for inclusion in the VarConnEstFailReport is left to UE implementation.
3>	set perRAInfoList to indicate the performed random access procedure related information as specified in 5.7.10.5;
3>	if the numberOfConnFail is smaller than 8:
4>	increment the numberOfConnFail by 1;
2>	inform upper layers about the failure to establish the RRC connection, upon which the procedure ends;
The UE may discard the connection establishment failure or connection resume failure information, i.e. release the UE variable VarConnEstFailReport and the UE variable VarConnEstFailReportList, 48 hours after the last connection establishment failure is detected.
The L2 U2N Relay UE either indicates to upper layers (to trigger PC5 unicast link release) or sends NotificationMessageSidelink message to the connected L2 U2N Remote UE(s) in accordance with 5.8.9.10.
5.3.3.8	Abortion of RRC connection establishment
If upper layers abort the RRC connection establishment procedure, due to a NAS procedure being aborted as specified in TS 24.501 [23], while the UE has not yet entered RRC_CONNECTED, the UE shall:
1>	stop timer T300, if running;
1>	reset MAC, release the MAC configuration and re-establish RLC for all RBs that are established (except broadcast MRBs).
The L2 U2N Relay UE either indicates to upper layers (to trigger PC5 unicast link release) or sends NotificationMessageSidelink message to the connected L2 U2N Remote UE(s) in accordance with 5.8.9.10.
The L2 U2N Remote UE indicates to upper layers to trigger PC5 unicast link release with its connected L2 U2N Relay UE.
5.3.4	Initial AS security activation
5.3.4.1	General

Figure 5.3.4.1-1: Security mode command, successful

Figure 5.3.4.1-2: Security mode command, failure
The purpose of this procedure is to activate AS security upon RRC connection establishment.
5.3.4.2	Initiation
The network initiates the security mode command procedure to a UE in RRC_CONNECTED. Moreover, the network applies the procedure as follows:
-	when only SRB1 is established, i.e. prior to establishment of SRB2, multicast MRBs and/ or DRBs.
5.3.4.3	Reception of the SecurityModeCommand by the UE
The UE shall:
1>	derive the KgNB key, as specified in TS 33.501 [11];
1>	derive the KRRCint key associated with the integrityProtAlgorithm indicated in the SecurityModeCommand message, as specified in TS 33.501 [11];
1>	request lower layers to verify the integrity protection of the SecurityModeCommand message, using the algorithm indicated by the integrityProtAlgorithm as included in the SecurityModeCommand message and the KRRCint key;
1>	if the SecurityModeCommand message passes the integrity protection check:
2>	derive the KRRCenc key and the KUPenc key associated with the cipheringAlgorithm indicated in the SecurityModeCommand message, as specified in TS 33.501 [11];
2>	derive the KUPint key associated with the integrityProtAlgorithm indicated in the SecurityModeCommand message, as specified in TS 33.501 [11];
2>	configure lower layers to apply SRB integrity protection using the indicated algorithm and the KRRCint key immediately, i.e. integrity protection shall be applied to all subsequent messages received and sent by the UE, including the SecurityModeComplete message;
2>	configure lower layers to apply SRB ciphering using the indicated algorithm, the KRRCenc keyafter completing the procedure, i.e. ciphering shall be applied to all subsequent messages received and sent by the UE, except for the SecurityModeComplete message which is sent unciphered;
2>	consider AS security to be activated;
2>	submit the SecurityModeComplete message to lower layers for transmission, upon which the procedure ends;
1>	else:
2>	continue using the configuration used prior to the reception of the SecurityModeCommand message, i.e. neither apply integrity protection nor ciphering.
2>	submit the SecurityModeFailure message to lower layers for transmission, upon which the procedure ends.
5.3.5	RRC reconfiguration
5.3.5.1	General

Figure 5.3.5.1-1: RRC reconfiguration, successful

Figure 5.3.5.1-2: RRC reconfiguration, failure
The purpose of this procedure is to modify an RRC connection, e.g. to establish/modify/release RBs/BH RLC channels/Uu Relay RLC channels/PC5 Relay RLC channels, to perform reconfiguration with sync, to setup/modify/release measurements, to add/modify/release SCells and cell groups, to add/modify/release conditional reconfiguration configuration, to add/modify/release LTM configuration, and to add/modify/release MP configuration. As part of the procedure, NAS dedicated information may be transferred from the Network to the UE.
RRC reconfiguration to perform reconfiguration with sync includes, but is not limited to, the following cases:
-	reconfiguration with sync and security key refresh, involving RA to the PCell/PSCell, MAC reset, refresh of security and re-establishment of RLC and PDCP triggered by explicit indicators;
-	reconfiguration with sync but without security key refresh, involving RA to the PCell/PSCell, MAC reset and RLC re-establishment and PDCP data recovery (for AM DRB or AM MRB) triggered by explicit indicators;
-	reconfiguration with sync for DAPS and security key refresh, involving RA to the target PCell, establishment of target MAC, and
-	for non-DAPS bearer: refresh of security and re-establishment of RLC and PDCP triggered by explicit indicators;
-	for DAPS bearer: establishment of RLC for the target PCell, refresh of security and reconfiguration of PDCP to add the ciphering function, the integrity protection function and ROHC function of the target PCell;
-	for SRB: refresh of security and establishment of RLC and PDCP for the target PCell;
-	reconfiguration with sync for DAPS but without security key refresh, involving RA to the target PCell, establishment of target MAC, and
-	for non-DAPS bearer: RLC re-establishment and PDCP data recovery (for AM DRB or AM MRB) triggered by explicit indicators.
-	for DAPS bearer: establishment of RLC for target PCell, reconfiguration of PDCP to add the ciphering function, the integrity protection function and ROHC function of the target PCell;
-	for SRB: establishment of RLC and PDCP for the target PCell.
-	reconfiguration with sync for direct-to-indirect path switch or indirect-to-indirect path switch, not involving RA at target side, involving re-establishment of PDCP /PDCP data recovery (for AM DRB) triggered by explicit indicators;
-	reconfiguration with sync for LTM cell switch (without security key refresh), and
-	involving or not involving RA to the target LTM candidate SpCell according to a network indication;
-	MAC reset;
-	depending on a network indication, involving or not involving re-establishment of RLC and PDCP data recovery (for AM DRB).
In (NG)EN-DC and NR-DC, SRB3 can be used for measurement configuration and reporting, for UE assistance (re-)configuration and reporting for power savings, for IP address (re-)configuration and reporting for IAB-nodes, to (re-)configure MAC, RLC, BAP, physical layer and RLF timers and constants of the SCG configuration, to reconfigure PDCP for DRBs associated with the S-KgNB or SRB3, to reconfigure SDAP for DRBs associated with S-KgNB in NGEN-DC and NR-DC, to add/modify/release conditional PSCell change configuration or subsequent CPAC configuration, and to add/modify/release the LTM configuration associated with the SCG (only in NR-DC), provided that the (re-)configuration does not require any MN involvement, and to transmit RRC messages between the MN and the UE during fast MCG link recovery. In (NG)EN-DC and NR-DC, only measConfig, radioBearerConfig, conditionalReconfiguration, ltm-Config (only in NR-DC), bap-Config, iab-IP-AddressConfigurationList, otherConfig, appLayerMeasConfig and/or secondaryCellGroup are included in RRCReconfiguration received via SRB3, except when RRCReconfiguration is received within DLInformationTransferMRDC.
When a clause of 5.3.5 is executed due to an LTM cell switch execution (i.e., as specified in 5.3.5.18.6) or due to a conditional reconfiguration execution for subsequent CPAC (i.e., as specified in 5.3.5.13.8), every appearance of "the received" before RRCReconfiguration message, before a field name, or before an IE name, refers to the RRCReconfiguration message that the UE applies, as specified in 5.3.5.18.6, 5.3.5.13.8, or the field or IE in that RRCReconfiguration message.
5.3.5.2	Initiation
The Network may initiate the RRC reconfiguration procedure to a UE in RRC_CONNECTED. The Network applies the procedure as follows:
-	the establishment of RBs (other than SRB1, that is established during RRC connection establishment) is performed only when AS security has been activated;
-	the establishment of BH RLC Channels for IAB is performed only when AS security has been activated;
-	the configuration of NCR-Fwd is performed only when AS security has been activated;
-	the establishment of Uu Relay RLC channels and PC5 Relay RLC channels (other than SL-RLC0 and SL-RLC1) for L2 U2N Relay UE is performed only when AS security has been activated, and the establishment of PC5 Relay RLC channels for L2 U2N Remote UE (other than SL-RLC0 and SL-RLC1) is performed only when AS security has been activated;
-	the establishment of PC5 Relay RLC channels for L2 U2U Relay UE and L2 U2U Remote UE is performed only when AS security has been activated;
-	the addition of Secondary Cell Group and SCells is performed only when AS security has been activated;
-	the reconfigurationWithSync is included in secondaryCellGroup only when at least one RLC bearer or BH RLC channel is setup in SCG;
-	the reconfigurationWithSync is included in masterCellGroup only when AS security has been activated, and SRB2 with at least one DRB or multicast MRB or, for IAB and NCR, SRB2, have been setup and not suspended;
-	the conditionalReconfiguration for CPC is included only when at least one RLC bearer is setup in SCG;
-	the conditionalReconfiguration for CHO, CPA, or subsequent CPAC is included only when AS security has been activated, and SRB2 with at least one DRB or multicast MRB or, for IAB, SRB2, are setup and not suspended;
-	the addition of indirect path for MP is performed only when AS security has been activated;
-	the ltm-Config for LTM on the MCG is included only when AS security has been activated, and SRB2 with at least one DRB are setup and not suspended;
-	the ltm-Config for LTM on the SCG is included only when at least one RLC bearer is setup in SCG.
5.3.5.3	Reception of an RRCReconfiguration by the UE
The UE shall perform the following actions upon reception of the RRCReconfiguration, upon execution of the conditional reconfiguration (CHO, CPA, CPC, or subsequent CPAC), or upon execution of an LTM cell switch:
1>	if the RRCReconfiguration is applied due to a conditional reconfiguration execution upon cell selection performed while timer T311 was running, as defined in 5.3.7.3:
2>	remove all the entries in the condReconfigList within the MCG and the SCG VarConditionalReconfig except for the entries in which subsequentCondReconfig is present, if any;
1>	if the RRCReconfiguration includes the daps-SourceRelease:
2>	reset the source MAC and release the source MAC configuration;
2>	for each DAPS bearer:
3>	release the RLC entity or entities as specified in TS 38.322 [4], clause 5.1.3, and the associated logical channel for the source SpCell;
3>	reconfigure the PDCP entity to release DAPS as specified in TS 38.323 [5];
2>	for each SRB:
3>	release the PDCP entity for the source SpCell;
3>	release the RLC entity as specified in TS 38.322 [4], clause 5.1.3, and the associated logical channel for the source SpCell;
2>	release the physical channel configuration for the source SpCell;
2>	discard the keys used in the source SpCell (the KgNB key, the KRRCenc key, the KRRCint key, the KUPint key and the KUPenc key), if any;
1>	if the RRCReconfiguration is received while the timer T348 is running:
2>	if the configuration does not exceed UE temporary capability restriction indicated via musim-CapRestriction included in the last transmission of UEAssistanceInformation:
3>	stop the timer T348;
1>	if the RRCReconfiguration is received via other RAT (i.e., inter-RAT handover to NR):
2>	if the RRCReconfiguration does not include the fullConfig and the UE is connected to 5GC (i.e., delta signalling during intra 5GC handover):
3>	re-use the source RAT SDAP and PDCP configurations if available (i.e., current SDAP/PDCP configurations for all RBs from source E-UTRA RAT prior to the reception of the inter-RAT HO RRCReconfiguration message);
1>	else:
2>	if the RRCReconfiguration includes the fullConfig:
3>	perform the full configuration procedure as specified in 5.3.5.11;
1>	if the RRCReconfiguration includes the masterCellGroup:
2>	perform the cell group configuration for the received masterCellGroup according to 5.3.5.5;
1>	if the RRCReconfiguration includes the masterKeyUpdate:
2>	perform AS security key update procedure as specified in 5.3.5.7;
1>	if the RRCReconfiguration includes the sk-Counter:
2>	perform security key update procedure as specified in 5.3.5.7;
1>	if the RRCReconfiguration includes the secondaryCellGroup:
2>	perform the cell group configuration for the SCG according to 5.3.5.5;
1>	if the RRCReconfiguration includes the mrdc-SecondaryCellGroupConfig:
2>	if the mrdc-SecondaryCellGroupConfig is set to setup:
3>	if the mrdc-SecondaryCellGroupConfig includes mrdc-ReleaseAndAdd:
4>	perform MR-DC release as specified in clause 5.3.5.10;
3>	if the received mrdc-SecondaryCellGroup is set to nr-SCG:
4>	perform the RRC reconfiguration according to 5.3.5.3 for the RRCReconfiguration message included in nr-SCG;
3>	if the received mrdc-SecondaryCellGroup is set to eutra-SCG:
4>	perform the RRC connection reconfiguration as specified in TS 36.331 [10], clause 5.3.5.3 for the RRCConnectionReconfiguration message included in eutra-SCG;
2>	else (mrdc-SecondaryCellGroupConfig is set to release):
3>	perform MR-DC release as specified in clause 5.3.5.10;
NOTE 00:	If the UE receives, within an LTM candidate configuration, an mrdc-SecondaryCellGroupConfig set to release even if no SCG is currently configured at the UE, the UE does not consider this as an invalid configuration.
1>	if the RRCReconfiguration message includes the radioBearerConfig:
2>	perform the radio bearer configuration according to 5.3.5.6;
1>	if the RRCReconfiguration message includes the radioBearerConfig2:
2>	perform the radio bearer configuration according to 5.3.5.6;
1>	if the RRCReconfiguration message includes the measConfig:
2>	perform the measurement configuration procedure as specified in 5.5.2;
1>	if the RRCReconfiguration message includes the dedicatedNAS-MessageList:
2>	forward each element of the dedicatedNAS-MessageList to upper layers in the same order as listed;
1>	if the RRCReconfiguration message includes the dedicatedSIB1-Delivery:
2>	perform the action upon reception of SIB1 as specified in 5.2.2.4.2;
NOTE 0:	If this RRCReconfiguration is associated to the MCG and includes reconfigurationWithSync in spCellConfig and dedicatedSIB1-Delivery, the UE initiates (if needed) the request to acquire required SIBs, according to clause 5.2.2.3.5, only after the random access procedure or the LTM cell switch execution towards the target SpCell is completed.
1>	if the RRCReconfiguration message includes the dedicatedSystemInformationDelivery:
2>	perform the action upon reception of System Information as specified in 5.2.2.4;
2>	if all the SIB(s) and/or posSIB(s) requested in DedicatedSIBRequest message have been acquired:
3>	stop timer T350, if running;
1>	if the RRCReconfiguration message includes the dedicatedPosSysInfoDelivery:
2>	perform the action upon reception of the contained posSIB(s), as specified in clause 5.2.2.4.16;
2>	if all the SIB(s) and/or posSIB(s) requested in DedicatedSIBRequest message have been acquired:
3>	stop timer T350, if running;
1>	if the RRCReconfiguration message includes the otherConfig:
2>	perform the other configuration procedure as specified in 5.3.5.9;
1>	if the RRCReconfiguration message includes the bap-Config:
2>	perform the BAP configuration procedure as specified in 5.3.5.12;
1>	if the RRCReconfiguration message includes the iab-IP-AddressConfigurationList:
2>	if iab-IP-AddressToReleaseList is included:
3>	perform release of IP address as specified in 5.3.5.12a.1.1;
2>	if iab-IP-AddressToAddModList is included:
3>	perform IAB IP address addition/update as specified in 5.3.5.12a.1.2;
1>	if the RRCReconfiguration message includes the conditionalReconfiguration:
2>	perform conditional reconfiguration as specified in 5.3.5.13;
1>	if the RRCReconfiguration message includes the needForGapsConfigNR:
2>	if needForGapsConfigNR is set to setup:
3>	consider itself to be configured to provide the measurement gap requirement information of NR target bands;
2>	else:
3>	consider itself not to be configured to provide the measurement gap requirement information of NR target bands;
1>	if the RRCReconfiguration message includes the needForGapNCSG-ConfigNR:
2>	if needForGapNCSG-ConfigNR is set to setup:
3>	consider itself to be configured to provide the measurement gap and NCSG requirement information of NR target bands;
2>	else:
3>	consider itself not to be configured to provide the measurement gap and NCSG requirement information of NR target bands;
1>	if the RRCReconfiguration message includes the needForGapNCSG-ConfigEUTRA:
2>	if needForGapNCSG-ConfigEUTRA is set to setup:
3>	consider itself to be configured to provide the measurement gap and NCSG requirement information of EUTRA target bands;
2>	else:
3>	consider itself not to be configured to provide the measurement gap and NCSG requirement information of EUTRA target bands;
1>	if the RRCReconfiguration message includes the onDemandSIB-Request:
2>	if onDemandSIB-Request is set to setup:
3>	consider itself to be configured to request SIB(s) or posSIB(s) in RRC_CONNECTED in accordance with clause 5.2.2.3.5;
2>	else:
3>	consider itself not to be configured to request SIB(s) or posSIB(s) in RRC_CONNECTED in accordance with clause 5.2.2.3.5;
3>	stop timer T350, if running;
1>	if the RRCReconfiguration message includes the sl-ConfigDedicatedNR:
2>	perform the sidelink dedicated configuration procedure as specified in 5.3.5.14;
NOTE 0a:	If the sl-ConfigDedicatedNR was received embedded within an E-UTRA RRCConnectionReconfiguration message, the UE does not build an NR RRCReconfigurationComplete message for the received sl-ConfigDedicatedNR.
1>	if the RRCReconfiguration message includes the sl-L2RelayUE-Config:
2>	perform the L2 U2N or U2U Relay UE configuration procedure as specified in 5.3.5.15;
1>	if the RRCReconfiguration message includes the sl-L2RemoteUE-Config:
2>	perform the L2 U2N or U2U Remote UE configuration procedure as specified in 5.3.5.16;
1>	if the RRCReconfiguration message includes the dedicatedPagingDelivery:
2>	perform the Paging message reception procedure as specified in 5.3.2.3;
1>	if the RRCReconfiguration message includes the sl-ConfigDedicatedEUTRA-Info:
2>	perform related procedures for V2X sidelink communication in accordance with TS 36.331 [10], clause 5.3.10 and clause 5.5.2;
1>	if the RRCReconfiguration message includes the ul-GapFR2-Config:
2>	perform the FR2 UL gap configuration procedure as specified in 5.3.5.13c;
1>	if the RRCReconfiguration message includes the musim-GapConfig:
2>	perform the MUSIM gap configuration procedure as specified in 5.3.5.9a;
1>	if the RRCReconfiguration message includes the appLayerMeasConfig:
2>	for each application layer measurement configuration with appLayerIdleInactiveConfig configured:
3>	if the RPLMN is not included in plmn-IdentityList in VarAppLayerPLMN-ListConfig:
4>	forward the measConfigAppLayerId and inform upper layers about the release of the application layer measurement configuration;
4>	release the application layer measurement configuration including its fields in the UE variables VarAppLayerIdleConfig and VarAppLayerPLMN-ListConfig;
4>	discard any application layer measurement reports which were not yet fully submitted to lower layers for transmission;
4>	consider itself not to be configured to send application layer measurement report for the measConfigAppLayerId;
2>	if idleInactiveReportAllowed is included in the RRCReconfiguration message:
3> if the UE is configured with at least one application layer measurement configuration with appLayerIdleInactiveConfig configured:
4>	initiate the procedure in 5.7.16.2 after the RRCReconfigurationComplete has been transmitted;
2>	else:
3>	for each application layer measurement configuration with appLayerIdleInactiveConfig configured:
4>	forward the measConfigAppLayerId and inform upper layers about the release of the application layer measurement configuration;
4>	release the application layer measurement configuration including its fields in the UE variables VarAppLayerIdleConfig and VarAppLayerPLMN-ListConfig;
4>	discard any application layer measurement reports which were not yet fully submitted to lower layers for transmission;
4>	consider itself not to be configured to send application layer measurement reports for the measConfigAppLayerId;
2>	perform the application layer measurement configuration procedure as specified in 5.3.5.13d;
1>	if the RRCReconfiguration message includes the ue-TxTEG-RequestUL-TDOA-Config:
2>	if ue-TxTEG-RequestUL-TDOA-Config is set to setup:
3>	perform the UE positioning assistance information procedure as specified in 5.7.14;
2>	else:
3>	release the configuration of UE positioning assistance information;
1>	if the RRCReconfiguration message includes the aerial-Config:
2>	(re)configure the aerial parameters in accordance with the included aerial-Config;
1>	if the RRCReconfiguration message includes the sl-IndirectPathAddChange:
2>	perform the SL indirect path specific configuration procedure as specified in 5.3.5.17.2.2;
1>	if the RRCReconfiguration message includes the n3c-IndirectPathAddChange:
2>	perform configuration procedure for the remote UE part of N3C indirect path as specified in 5.3.5.17.3.2;
1>	if the RRCReconfiguration message includes the n3c-IndirectPathConfigRelay:
2>	perform the configuration procedure for the relay UE part of N3C indirect path as specified in 5.3.5.17.3.3;
1>	if the RRCReconfiguration message includes the ltm-Config:
2>	if the ltm-Config is set to setup:
3>	perform the LTM configuration procedure as specified in 5.3.5.18.1;
2>	else:
3>	perform the LTM configuration release procedure as specified in clause 5.3.5.18.7;
1>	if the RRCReconfiguration message includes the srs-PosResourceSetLinkedForAggBWList:
2>	if srs-PosResourceSetLinkedForAggBWList is set to setup:
3>	perform the SRS for positioning transmission using bandwidth aggregation provided in configuration srs-PosResourceSetLinkedForAggBW as specified in TS 38.211 [16];
2>	else:
3>	release all the configuration of srs-PosResourceSetLinkedForAggBW;
1>	set the content of the RRCReconfigurationComplete message as follows:
2>	if the RRCReconfiguration includes the masterCellGroup containing the reportUplinkTxDirectCurrent:
3>	include the uplinkTxDirectCurrentList for each MCG serving cell with UL;
3>	include uplinkDirectCurrentBWP-SUL for each MCG serving cell configured with SUL carrier, if any, within the uplinkTxDirectCurrentList;
2>	if the RRCReconfiguration includes the masterCellGroup containing the reportUplinkTxDirectCurrentTwoCarrier:
3>	include in the uplinkTxDirectCurrentTwoCarrierList the list of uplink Tx DC locations for the configured intra-band uplink carrier aggregation in the MCG;
2>	if the RRCReconfiguration includes the masterCellGroup containing the reportUplinkTxDirectCurrentMoreCarrier:
3>	include in the uplinkTxDirectCurrentMoreCarrierList the list of uplink Tx DC locations for the configured intra-band uplink carrier aggregation in the MCG;
2>	if the RRCReconfiguration includes the secondaryCellGroup containing the reportUplinkTxDirectCurrent:
3>	include the uplinkTxDirectCurrentList for each SCG serving cell with UL;
3>	include uplinkDirectCurrentBWP-SUL for each SCG serving cell configured with SUL carrier, if any, within the uplinkTxDirectCurrentList;
2>	if the RRCReconfiguration includes the secondaryCellGroup containing the reportUplinkTxDirectCurrentTwoCarrier:
3>	include in the uplinkTxDirectCurrentTwoCarrierList the list of uplink Tx DC locations for the configured intra-band uplink carrier aggregation in the SCG;
2>	if the RRCReconfiguration includes the secondaryCellGroup containing the reportUplinkTxDirectCurrentMoreCarrier:
3>	include in the uplinkTxDirectCurrentMoreCarrierList the list of uplink Tx DC locations for the configured intra-band uplink carrier aggregation in the SCG;
NOTE 0b:	The UE does not expect that the reportUplinkTxDirectCurrentTwoCarrier or reportUplinkTxDirectCurrentMoreCarrier is received in both masterCellGroup and in secondaryCellGroup. Network only configures at most one of reportUplinkTxDirectCurrent, reportUplinkTxDirectCurrentTwoCarrier or reportUplinkTxDirectCurrentMoreCarrier in one RRC message.
2>	if the RRCReconfiguration message includes the mrdc-SecondaryCellGroupConfig with mrdc-SecondaryCellGroup set to eutra-SCG:
3>	include in the eutra-SCG-Response the E-UTRA RRCConnectionReconfigurationComplete message in accordance with TS 36.331 [10] clause 5.3.5.3;
2> if the RRCReconfiguration message includes the mrdc-SecondaryCellGroupConfig with mrdc-SecondaryCellGroup set to nr-SCG:
3>	include in the nr-SCG-Response the SCG RRCReconfigurationComplete message;
3>	if the RRCReconfiguration message is applied due to conditional reconfiguration execution and the RRCReconfiguration message does not include the reconfigurationWithSync in the masterCellGroup:
4>	include in the selectedCondRRCReconfig the condReconfigId for the selected cell of conditional reconfiguration execution;
4>	if a new sk-Counter value has been selected due to the conditional reconfiguration execution for subsequent CPAC:
5>	include selectedSK-Counter and set its value to the selected sk-Counter value;
3>	if the RRCReconfiguration message is applied due to conditional reconfiguration execution and condExecutionCondPSCell is configured for the selected PSCell:
4>	include in the selectedPSCellForCHO-WithSCG and set it to the information of the selected PSCell;
2>	if the RRCReconfiguration includes the reconfigurationWithSync in spCellConfig of an MCG:
3>	if the UE has logged measurements available for NR and if the RPLMN is included in plmn-IdentityList stored in VarLogMeasReport; or
3>	if the UE has logged measurements available for NR and if the current registered SNPN identity is included in snpn-ConfigID-List stored in the VarLogMeasReport:
4>	include the logMeasAvailable in the RRCReconfigurationComplete message;
4>	if Bluetooth measurement results are included in the logged measurements the UE has available for NR:
5>	include the logMeasAvailableBT in the RRCReconfigurationComplete message;
4>	if WLAN measurement results are included in the logged measurements the UE has available for NR:
5>	include the logMeasAvailableWLAN in the RRCReconfigurationComplete message;
3>	if the sigLoggedMeasType in VarLogMeasReport is included; or
3>	if the UE supports the override protection of the signalling based logged MDT for inter-RAT (i.e. LTE to NR), and if the sigLoggedMeasType in VarLogMeasReport of TS 36.331 [10] is included:
4>	if T330 timer is running (associated to the logged measurement configuration for NR or for LTE):
5>	set sigLogMeasConfigAvailable to true in the RRCReconfigurationComplete message;
4>	else:
5>	if the UE has logged measurements in VarLogMeasReport or in VarLogMeasReport of TS 36.331 [10]:
6>	set sigLogMeasConfigAvailable to false in the RRCReconfigurationComplete message;
3>	if the UE has connection establishment failure or connection resume failure information available in VarConnEstFailReport or VarConnEstFailReportList and if the RPLMN is equal to plmn-Identity stored in VarConnEstFailReport or in at least one of the entries of VarConnEstFailReportList; or
3>	if the UE has connection establishment failure information or connection resume failure information available in VarConnEstFailReport or VarConnEstFailReportList and if the registered SNPN identity is equal to snpn-Identity in networkIdentity stored in VarConnEstFailReport or any entry of VarConnEstFailReportList:
4>	include connEstFailInfoAvailable in the RRCReconfigurationComplete message;
3>	if the UE has radio link failure or handover failure information available in VarRLF-Report and if the RPLMN is included in plmn-IdentityList stored in VarRLF-Report; or
3>	if the UE has radio link failure or handover failure information available in VarRLF-Report of TS 36.331 [10] and if the UE is capable of cross-RAT RLF reporting and if the RPLMN is included in plmn-IdentityList stored in VarRLF-Report of TS 36.331 [10]; or
3>	if the UE has radio link failure or handover failure information available in VarRLF-Report and if the current registered SNPN identity is included in snpn-IdentityList stored in VarRLF-Report:
4>	include rlf-InfoAvailable in the RRCReconfigurationComplete message;
3>	if the UE was configured with successHO-Config when connected to the source PCell:
4>	if the applied RRCReconfiguration is not due to a conditional reconfiguration execution upon cell selection performed while timer T311 was running, as defined in 5.3.7.3; or
4>	if the applied RRCReconfiguration is not received when T316 was running:
5>	perform the actions for the successful handover report determination as specified in clause 5.7.10.6, upon successfully completing the Random Access procedure triggered for the reconfigurationWithSync in spCellConfig of the MCG;
4>	if applied RRCReconfiguration is received when T316 was running:
5>	release successHO-Config configured by the source PCell and thresholdPercentageT304 if configured by the target PCell;
3>	if the UE has successful handover information available in VarSuccessHO-Report and if the RPLMN is included in plmn-IdentityList stored in VarSuccessHO-Report; or
3>	if the UE has successful handover information available in VarSuccessHO-Report and if the current registered SNPN identity is included in snpn-IdentityList stored in the VarSuccessHO-Report:
4>	include successHO-InfoAvailable in the RRCReconfigurationComplete message;
3>	release successPSCell-Config configured by the source PCell, if available;
3>	if the UE has successful PSCell change or addition information available in VarSuccessPSCell-Report and if the RPLMN is included in plmn-IdentityList stored in VarSuccessPSCell-Report; or
3>	if the UE has successful PSCell change or addition information available in VarSuccessPSCell-Report and if the current registered SNPN identity is included in snpn-IdentityList stored in the VarSuccessPSCell-Report:
4>	include successPSCell-InfoAvailable in the RRCReconfigurationComplete message;
2>	if the RRCReconfiguration message was received via SRB1, but not within mrdc-SecondaryCellGroup or E-UTRA RRCConnectionReconfiguration or E-UTRA RRCConnectionResume:
3>	if the UE is configured to provide the measurement gap requirement information of NR target bands:
4>	if the RRCReconfiguration message includes the needForGapsConfigNR; or
4>	if the NeedForGapsInfoNR information is changed compared to last time the UE reported this information; or
4>	if the RRCReconfiguration message includes the needForInterruptionConfigNR and set it to enabled; or
4>	if the needForInterruptionConfigNR is enabled and the NeedForInterruptionInfoNR information is changed compared to last time the UE reported this information:
5>	include the NeedForGapsInfoNR and set the contents as follows:
6>	include intraFreq-needForGap and set the gap requirement information of intra-frequency measurement for each NR serving cell;
6>	if requestedTargetBandFilterNR is configured:
7>	for each supported NR band that is also included in requestedTargetBandFilterNR, include an entry in interFreq-needForGap and set the gap requirement information for that band;
6>	else:
7>	include an entry in interFreq-needForGap and set the corresponding gap requirement information for each supported NR band;
5>	if the needForInterruptionConfigNR is enabled:
6>	include the needForInterruptionInfoNR and set the contents as follows:
7>	include intraFreq-needForInterruption with the same number of entries, and listed in the same order, as in intraFreq-needForGap;
7> for each entry in intraFreq-needForInterruption:
8>	include interruptionIndication and set the interruption requirement information if the corresponding entry in intraFreq-needForGap is set to no-gap;
7>	include interFreq-needForInterruption with the same number of entries, and listed in the same order, as in interFreq-needForGap;
7> for each entry in interFreq-needForInterruption:
8>	include interruptionIndication and set the interruption requirement information if the corresponding entry in interFreq-needForGap is set to no-gap;
3>	if the UE is configured to provide the measurement gap and NCSG requirement information of NR target bands:
4>	if the RRCReconfiguration message includes the needForGapNCSG-ConfigNR; or
4>	if the needForGapNCSG-InfoNR information is changed compared to last time the UE reported this information:
5>	include the NeedForGapNCSG-InfoNR and set the contents as follows:
6>	include intraFreq-needForNCSG and set the gap and NCSG requirement information of intra-frequency measurement for each NR serving cell;
6>	if requestedTargetBandFilterNCSG-NR is configured:
7>	for each supported NR band included in requestedTargetBandFilterNCSG-NR, include an entry in interFreq-needForNCSG and set the NCSG requirement information for that band;
6>	else:
7>	include an entry for each supported NR band in interFreq-needForNCSG and set the corresponding NCSG requirement information;
3>	if the UE is configured to provide the measurement gap and NCSG requirement information of EUTRA target bands:
4>	if the RRCReconfiguration message includes the needForGapNCSG-ConfigEUTRA; or
4>	if the needForGapNCSG-InfoEUTRA information is changed compared to last time the UE reported this information:
5>	include the NeedForGapNCSG-InfoEUTRA and set the contents as follows:
6>	if requestedTargetBandFilterNCSG-EUTRA is configured, for each supported E-UTRA band included in requestedTargetBandFilterNCSG-EUTRA, include an entry in needForNCSG-EUTRA and set the NCSG requirement information for that band; otherwise, include an entry for each supported E-UTRA band in needForNCSG-EUTRA and set the corresponding NCSG requirement information;
2>	if the UE has (updated) flight path information available:
3>	if the UE had not provided a flight path information since last entering RRC_CONNECTED state; or
3>	if at least one waypoint or a timestamp corresponding to a waypoint location that was not previously provided since last entering RRC_CONNECTED state is available; or
3>	if at least one upcoming waypoint or a timestamp corresponding to a waypoint location that was previously provided since last entering RRC_CONNECTED state is to be removed; or
3>	if flightPathUpdateDistanceThr is configured and, for at least one waypoint, the 3D distance between the previously provided location and the new location is more than the distance threshold configured by flightPathUpdateDistanceThr; or
3> if flightPathUpdateTimeThr is configured and, for at least one waypoint, the time difference between the previously provided timestamp and the new timestamp, if available, is more than the time threshold configured by flightPathUpdateTimeThr:
4>	include flightPathInfoAvailable;
NOTE 0c:	If neither flightPathUpdateDistanceThr nor flightPathUpdateTimeThr is configured, it is up to UE implementation whether to include flightPathInfoAvailable when updated flight path information is available.
2>	if the UE has at least one stored application layer measurement configuration with appLayerIdleInactiveConfig configured which has not been successfully transmitted since entering RRC_CONNECTED state:
3>	include measConfigReportAppLayerAvailable;
2>	if this RRCReconfiguration message is applied due to an LTM cell switch execution procedure according to clause 5.3.5.18.6:
3>	include in the appliedLTM-CandidateId the LTM-CandidateId of the applied LTM candidate configuration;
1>	if the UE is configured with E-UTRA nr-SecondaryCellGroupConfig (UE in (NG)EN-DC):
2>	if the RRCReconfiguration message was received via E-UTRA SRB1 as specified in TS 36.331 [10]; or
2>	if the RRCReconfiguration message was received via E-UTRA RRC message RRCConnectionReconfiguration within MobilityFromNRCommand (handover from NR standalone to (NG)EN-DC);
3>	if the RRCReconfiguration is applied due to a conditional reconfiguration execution for CPC which is configured via conditionalReconfiguration contained in nr-SecondaryCellGroupConfig specified in TS 36.331 [10]:
4>	submit the RRCReconfigurationComplete message via the E-UTRA MCG embedded in E-UTRA RRC message ULInformationTransferMRDC as specified in TS 36.331 [10], clause 5.6.2a.
3>	else if the RRCReconfiguration message was included in E-UTRA RRCConnectionResume message:
4>	submit the RRCReconfigurationComplete message via E-UTRA embedded in E-UTRA RRC message RRCConnectionResumeComplete as specified in TS 36.331 [10], clause 5.3.3.4a;
3>	else:
4>	submit the RRCReconfigurationComplete via E-UTRA embedded in E-UTRA RRC message RRCConnectionReconfigurationComplete as specified in TS 36.331 [10], clause 5.3.5.3/5.3.5.4/5.4.2.3;
3>	if the scg-State is not included in the E-UTRA message (RRCConnectionReconfiguration or RRCConnectionResume) containing the RRCReconfiguration message:
4>	perform SCG activation as specified in 5.3.5.13a;
4>	if reconfigurationWithSync was included in spCellConfig of an SCG:
5>	initiate the Random Access procedure on the PSCell, as specified in TS 38.321 [3];
4>	else if the SCG was deactivated before the reception of the E-UTRA RRC message containing the RRCReconfiguration message:
5>	if bfd-and-RLM was not configured to true before the reception of the E-UTRA RRCConnectionReconfiguration or RRCConnectionResume message containing the RRCReconfiguration message or if lower layers indicate that a Random Access procedure is needed for SCG activation:
6>	initiate the Random Access procedure on the SpCell, as specified in TS 38.321 [3];
5>	else the procedure ends;
4>	else the procedure ends;
3>	else:
4>	perform SCG deactivation as specified in 5.3.5.13b;
4>	the procedure ends;
2>	if the RRCReconfiguration message was received within nr-SecondaryCellGroupConfig in RRCConnectionReconfiguration message received via SRB3 within DLInformationTransferMRDC:
3>	submit the RRCReconfigurationComplete via E-UTRA embedded in E-UTRA RRC message RRCConnectionReconfigurationComplete as specified in TS 36.331 [10], clause 5.3.5.3/5.3.5.4;
3>	if the scg-State is not included in the RRCConnectionReconfiguration:
4>	if reconfigurationWithSync was included in spCellConfig of an SCG:
5>	initiate the Random Access procedure on the SpCell, as specified in TS 38.321 [3];
4>	else the procedure ends;
3>	else:
4>	perform SCG deactivation as specified in 5.3.5.13b;
4>	the procedure ends;
NOTE 1:	The order the UE sends the RRCConnectionReconfigurationComplete message and performs the Random Access procedure towards the SCG is left to UE implementation.
2>	else (RRCReconfiguration was received via SRB3) but not within DLInformationTransferMRDC:
3>	submit the RRCReconfigurationComplete message via SRB3 to lower layers for transmission using the new configuration;
NOTE 2:	In (NG)EN-DC and NR-DC, in the case RRCReconfiguration is received via SRB1 or within DLInformationTransferMRDC via SRB3, the random access is triggered by RRC layer itself as there is not necessarily other UL transmission. In the case RRCReconfiguration is received via SRB3 but not within DLInformationTransferMRDC, the random access is triggered by the MAC layer due to arrival of RRCReconfigurationComplete.
1>	else if the RRCReconfiguration message was received via SRB1 within the nr-SCG within mrdc-SecondaryCellGroup (UE in NR-DC, mrdc-SecondaryCellGroup was received in RRCReconfiguration or RRCResume via SRB1):
2>	if the RRCReconfiguration is applied due to a conditional reconfiguration execution for CPC or subsequent CPAC which is configured via conditionalReconfiguration contained in nr-SCG within mrdc-SecondaryCellGroup; or
2>	if the RRCReconfiguration is applied due to an LTM cell switch execution:
3>	submit the RRCReconfigurationComplete message via SRB1 embedded in NR RRC message ULInformationTransferMRDC as specified in clause 5.7.2a.3.
2>	if the scg-State is not included in the RRCReconfiguration or RRCResume message containing the RRCReconfiguration message:
3>	perform SCG activation as specified in 5.3.5.13a;
3>	if reconfigurationWithSync was included in spCellConfig in nr-SCG:
4>	if the RRCReconfiguration message is not applied due to an LTM cell switch execution for which lower layer indicate to skip the Random Access procedure:
5>	initiate the Random Access procedure on the PSCell, as specified in TS 38.321 [3];
4>	if the UE was configured with successPSCell-Config when connected to the source PSCell (for PSCell change) or to the PCell (for PSCell addition or change):
5>	perform the actions for the successful PSCell change or addition report determination as specified in clause 5.7.10.7, upon successfully completing the Random Access procedure triggered for the reconfigurationWithSync in spCellConfig of the SCG;
3>	else if the SCG was deactivated before the reception of the NR RRC message containing the RRCReconfiguration message:
4>	if bfd-and-RLM was not configured to true before the reception of the RRCReconfiguration or RRCResume message containing the RRCReconfiguration message; or
4>	if lower layers indicate that a Random Access procedure is needed for SCG activation:
5>	initiate the Random Access procedure on the PSCell, as specified in TS 38.321 [3];
4>	else the procedure ends;
3>	else the procedure ends;
2>	else
3>	perform SCG deactivation as specified in 5.3.5.13b;
3>	the procedure ends;
NOTE 2a:	The order in which the UE sends the RRCReconfigurationComplete message and performs the Random Access procedure towards the SCG is left to UE implementation.
1>	else if the RRCReconfiguration message was received via SRB3 (UE in NR-DC):
2>	if the RRCReconfiguration message was received within DLInformationTransferMRDC:
3>	if the RRCReconfiguration message was received within the nr-SCG within mrdc-SecondaryCellGroup (NR SCG RRC Reconfiguration):
4>	if the scg-State is not included in the RRCReconfiguration message containing the RRCReconfiguration message:
5>	if reconfigurationWithSync was included in spCellConfig in nr-SCG:
6>	initiate the Random Access procedure on the PSCell, as specified in TS 38.321 [3];
6>	if the UE was configured with successPSCell-Config when connected to the source PSCell (for PSCell change) or to the PCell (for PSCell addition or change):
7>	perform the actions for the successful PSCell change report determination as specified in clause 5.7.10.7, upon successfully completing the Random Access procedure triggered for the reconfigurationWithSync in spCellConfig of the SCG;
5>	else:
6>	the procedure ends;
4>	else:
5>	perform SCG deactivation as specified in 5.3.5.13b;
5>	the procedure ends;
3>	else:
4>	if the RRCReconfiguration does not include the mrdc-SecondaryCellGroupConfig:
5>	if the RRCReconfiguration includes the scg-State:
6>	perform SCG deactivation as specified in 5.3.5.13b;
4>	submit the RRCReconfigurationComplete message via SRB1 to lower layers for transmission using the new configuration;
2>	else:
3>	if the RRCReconfiguration includes the reconfigurationWithSync in spCellConfig for the SCG; and
3>	if the UE was configured with successPSCell-Config when connected to the source PSCell (for PSCell change):
4>	perform the actions for the successful PSCell change report determination as specified in clause 5.7.10.7, upon successfully completing the Random Access procedure triggered for the reconfigurationWithSync in spCellConfig of the SCG;
3>	if the UE has successful PSCell change or addition information available in VarSuccessPSCell-Report and if the RPLMN is included in plmn-IdentityList stored in VarSuccessPSCell-Report; or
3>	if the UE has successful PSCell change or addition information available in VarSuccessPSCell-Report and if the current registered SNPN identity is included in snpn-IdentityList stored in the VarSuccessPSCell-Report:
4>	include successPSCell-InfoAvailable in the RRCReconfigurationComplete message;
3>	submit the RRCReconfigurationComplete message via SRB3 to lower layers for transmission using the new configuration;
1>	else (RRCReconfiguration was received via SRB1):
2>	if the UE is in NR-DC and;
2>	if the RRCReconfiguration does not include the mrdc-SecondaryCellGroupConfig:
3>	if the RRCReconfiguration includes the scg-State:
4>	perform SCG deactivation as specified in 5.3.5.13b;
3>	else:
4>	perform SCG activation without SN message as specified in 5.3.5.13b1;
2>	if the reconfigurationWithSync was included in spCellConfig of an MCG:
3>	if ta-Report or ta-ReportATG is configured with value enabled and the UE supports TA reporting:
4>	indicate TA report initiation to lower layers;
2>	submit the RRCReconfigurationComplete message via SRB1 to lower layers for transmission using the new configuration;
2>	if this is the first RRCReconfiguration message after successful completion of the RRC re-establishment procedure:
3>	resume SRB2, SRB4, DRBs, multicast MRB, and BH RLC channels for IAB-MT, and Uu Relay RLC channels for L2 U2N Relay UE, that are suspended;
1>	if sl-IndirectPathAddChange was included in RRCReconfiguration message:
2>	if SRB1 is configured as split SRB and pdcp-Duplication is configured:
3>	when successfully sending RRCReconfigurationComplete message via SL indirect path (i.e., PC5 RLC acknowledgement is received from target L2 U2N Relay UE):
4>	stop timer T421;
2> else (i.e. split SRB1 with duplication is not configured):
3> when receiving RRCReconfigurationCompleteSidelink message from target L2 U2N Relay UE:
4>	stop timer T421;
1>	if reconfigurationWithSync was included in spCellConfig of an MCG or SCG and when MAC of an NR cell group successfully completes a Random Access procedure triggered above; or,
1>	if sl-PathSwitchConfig was included in reconfigurationWithSync included in spCellConfig of an MCG, and when successfully sending RRCReconfigurationComplete message (i.e., PC5 RLC acknowledgement is received from target L2 U2N Relay UE); or,
1>	if rach-LessHO was included in reconfigurationWithSync included in spCellConfig of an MCG, and upon indication from lower layers that the RACH-less handover has been successfully completed; or,
1>	if reconfigurationWithSync was included in spCellConfig of an MCG or SCG and the RRCReconfiguration message is applied due to an LTM cell switch execution and upon an indication from lower layer that the LTM cell switch execution has been successfully completed:
2>	stop timer T304 for that cell group if running;
2>	if rach-LessHO was included in reconfigurationWithSync included in spCellConfig of an MCG, and upon indication from lower layers that the RACH-less handover has been successfully completed; or,
2>	if reconfigurationWithSync was included in spCellConfig of an MCG or SCG and the RRCReconfiguration message is applied due to an LTM cell switch execution and upon an indication from lower layer that the LTM cell switch execution has been successfully completed:
3>	release dedicated preambles provided in rach-ConfigDedicated within reconfigurationWithSync, if configured;
3>	release dedicated msgA PUSCH resources provided in rach-ConfigDedicated within reconfigurationWithSync, if configured;
2>	if sl-PathSwitchConfig was included in reconfigurationWithSync:
3>	if the sl-IndirectPathMaintain is not included in reconfigurationWithSync:
4>	stop timer T420;
4>	release all radio resources, including release of the RLC entities and the MAC configuration at the source side;
4>	reset MAC used in the source cell;
3>	else (sl-IndirectPathMaintain is included):
4>	release radio resources on the direct path, including release of the RLC entities and the MAC configuration;
4>	reset MAC used in the source cell;
2>	if rach-LessHO was included in reconfigurationWithSync and cg-RRC-Configuration was configured:
3>	release the uplink grant configured for RACH-less handover;
NOTE 2b:	PDCP and SDAP configured by the source prior to the path switch that are reconfigured and re-used by target when delta signalling is used, are not released as part of this procedure.
2>	stop timer T310 for source SpCell if running;
2>	apply the parts of the CSI reporting configuration, the scheduling request configuration and the sounding RS configuration that do not require the UE to know the SFN of the respective target SpCell, if any;
2>	apply the parts of the measurement and the radio resource configuration that require the UE to know the SFN of the respective target SpCell (e.g. measurement gaps, periodic CQI reporting, scheduling request configuration, sounding RS configuration), if any, upon acquiring the SFN of that target SpCell;
2>	for each DRB configured as DAPS bearer, request uplink data switching to the PDCP entity, as specified in TS 38.323 [5];
2>	if the reconfigurationWithSync was included in spCellConfig of an MCG:
3>	if T390 is running:
4>	stop timer T390 for all access categories;
4>	perform the actions as specified in 5.3.14.4.
3>	if T350 is running:
4>	stop timer T350;
3>	if RRCReconfiguration does not include dedicatedSIB1-Delivery and
3>	if the active downlink BWP, which is indicated by the firstActiveDownlinkBWP-Id for the target SpCell of the MCG, has a common search space configured by searchSpaceSIB1:
4>	acquire the SIB1, which is scheduled as specified in TS 38.213 [13], of the target SpCell of the MCG;
4>	upon acquiring SIB1, perform the actions specified in clause 5.2.2.4.2;
2>	if the RRCReconfiguration message is applied due to a conditional reconfiguration execution and the RRCReconfiguration message is contained in an entry in MCG VarConditionalReconfig that includes the subsequentCondReconfig:
3>	for each entry in the condReconfigList within the MCG VarConditionalReconfig:
4>	if there is an entry in condExecutionCondToAddModList within the subsequentCondReconfig that has subsequentCondReconfigId matching the condReconfigId in the entry of the condReconfigList:
5>	if subsequentCondExecutionCondSCG is included in the entry of the condExecutionCondToAddModList:
6>	store in the condExecutionCondSCG in the entry of the condReconfigList the value of subsequentCondExecutionCondSCG in the entry of the condExecutionCondToAddModList;
2>	if the RRCReconfiguration message is applied due to a conditional reconfiguration execution and the RRCReconfiguration message is contained in an entry in SCG VarConditionalReconfig that includes the subsequentCondReconfig:
3>	for each entry in the condReconfigList within the SCG VarConditionalReconfig:
4>	if there is an entry in condExecutionCondToAddModList within the subsequentCondReconfig that has subsequentCondReconfigId matching the condReconfigId in the entry of the condReconfigList:
5>	if subsequentCondExecutionCond is included in the entry of the condExecutionCondToAddModList:
6>	store in the condExecutionCond in the entry of the condReconfigList the value of subsequentCondExecutionCond in the entry of the condExecutionCondToAddModList;
2>	if the reconfigurationWithSync was included in spCellConfig of an MCG; or
2>	if the reconfigurationWithSync was included in spCellConfig of an SCG and the CPA, CPC, or subsequent CPAC was configured:
3>	remove all the entries in the condReconfigList within the MCG and the SCG VarConditionalReconfig except for the entries in which subsequentCondReconfig is present, if any;
3>	remove all the entries within VarConditionalReconfiguration as specified in TS 36.331 [10], clause 5.3.5.9.6, if any;
3>	for each measId of the MCG measConfig, if configured, and for each measId of the SCG measConfig, if configured, if the associated reportConfig has a reportType set to condTriggerConfig:
4>	if the reportConfigId is not associated with any measId indicated by the condExecutionCond or the condExecutionCondSCG in an entry of condReconfigList in VarConditionalReconfig in which subsequentCondReconfig is included:
5>	remove the entry with the matching reportConfigId from the reportConfigList within the VarMeasConfig;
4>	if the associated measObjectId is only associated to a reportConfig with reportType set to condTriggerConfig; and
4>	if the measObjectId is not associated with any measId indicated by the condExecutionCond or the condExecutionCondSCG in an entry of condReconfigList in VarConditionalReconfig in which subsequentCondReconfig is included:
5>	remove the entry with the matching measObjectId from the measObjectList within the VarMeasConfig;
4>	remove the entry with the matching measId from the measIdList within the VarMeasConfig;
2>	if reconfigurationWithSync was included in masterCellGroup or secondaryCellGroup:
3>	if the UE initiated transmission of a UEAssistanceInformation message for the corresponding cell group during the last 1 second, and the UE is still configured to provide the concerned UE assistance information for the corresponding cell group; or
3>	if the RRCReconfiguration message is applied due to a conditional reconfiguration execution or an LTM cell switch procedure, and the UE is configured to provide UE assistance information for the corresponding cell group, and the UE has initiated transmission of a UEAssistanceInformation message for the corresponding cell group since it was configured to do so in accordance with 5.7.4.2:
4>	initiate transmission of a UEAssistanceInformation message for the corresponding cell group in accordance with clause 5.7.4.3 to provide the concerned UE assistance information;
4>	start or restart the prohibit timer (if exists) associated with the concerned UE assistance information with the timer value set to the value in corresponding configuration;
4>	start or restart the leave without response timer (if exists) with the timer value set to the value in the musim-LeaveAssistanceConfig or the wait timer (if exists) with the timer value set to the value in musim-CapabilityRestrictionConfig;
3>	if SIB12 is provided by the target PCell, and the UE initiated transmission of a SidelinkUEInformationNR message indicating a change of NR sidelink communication/discovery related parameters relevant in target PCell during the last 1 second preceding reception of the RRCReconfiguration message including reconfigurationWithSync in spCellConfig of an MCG; or
3>	if the RRCReconfiguration message is applied due to a conditional reconfiguration execution and the UE is capable of NR sidelink communication/discovery and SIB12 is provided by the target PCell, and the UE has initiated transmission of a SidelinkUEInformationNR message since it was configured to do so in accordance with 5.8.3.2:
4>	initiate transmission of the SidelinkUEInformationNR message in accordance with 5.8.3.3;
3>	if any application layer measurement report container has been received from upper layers for which the successful transmission of the MeasurementReportAppLayer message or at least one segment of the message via SRB4 (if reconfigurationWithSync was included in masterCellGroup) or SRB5 (if reconfigurationWithSync was included in secondaryCellGroup) has not been confirmed by lower layers:
4>	if RRC segmentation was used for the MeasurementReportAppLayer message:
5>	if RRC segmentation is enabled based on the field rrc-SegAllowedSRB4 or rrc-SegAllowedSRB5 for the reportingSRB (or SRB4 if reportingSRB is not configured):
6>	re-submit all segments of the MeasurementReportAppLayer message to lower layers for transmission via the reportingSRB (or SRB4 if reportingSRB is not configured);
5>	else:
6>	discard all segments of the MeasurementReportAppLayer message;
4>	else:
5>	re-submit the MeasurementReportAppLayer message to lower layers for transmission via the reportingSRB (or SRB4 if reportingSRB is not configured);
2>	if reconfigurationWithSync was included in masterCellGroup and SRB4 is configured in the target cell:
3>	for each application layer measurement configuration in the UE:
4>	if the RRCReconfiguration message is applied due to a conditional reconfiguration execution, if transmissionOfSessionStartStop is set to true for the application layer measurement configuration and if the session status has changed since the UE was configured with the conditional reconfiguration:
5>	initiate transmission of a MeasurementReportAppLayer message including appLayerSessionStatus, via SRB4 for the application layer measurement in accordance with 5.7.16.2;
2>	if reconfigurationWithSync was included in masterCellGroup and the target cell provides SIB21 or provides SIB1 including nonServingCellMII:
3>	if the UE initiated transmission of an MBSInterestIndication message during the last 1 second preceding reception of this RRCReconfiguration message; or
3>	if the RRCReconfiguration message is applied due to a conditional reconfiguration execution, and the UE has initiated transmission of an MBSInterestIndication message after having received this RRCReconfiguration message:
4>	initiate transmission of an MBSInterestIndication message in accordance with clause 5.9.4;
2>	the procedure ends.
NOTE 3:	The UE is only required to acquire broadcasted SIB1 if the UE can acquire it without disrupting unicast or MBS multicast data reception, i.e. the broadcast and unicast/MBS multicast beams are quasi co-located.
NOTE 4: The UE sets the content of UEAssistanceInformation according to latest configuration (i.e. the configuration after applying the RRCReconfiguration message) and latest UE preference. The UE may include more than the concerned UE assistance information within the UEAssistanceInformation according to 5.7.4.2. Therefore, the content of UEAssistanceInformation message might not be the same as the content of the previous UEAssistanceInformation message.
5.3.5.4	Secondary cell group release
The UE shall:
1>	as a result of SCG release triggered by E-UTRA (i.e. (NG)EN-DC case) or NR (i.e. NR-DC case):
2>	reset SCG MAC, if configured;
2>	for each RLC bearer that is part of the SCG configuration:
3>	perform RLC bearer release procedure as specified in 5.3.5.5.3;
2>	for each BH RLC channel that is part of the SCG configuration:
3>	perform BH RLC channel release procedure as specified in 5.3.5.5.10;
2>	release the SCG configuration;
2>	for each application layer measurement configuration that is part of the SCG configuration:
3>	forward the measConfigAppLayerId and inform upper layers about the release of the application layer measurement configuration;
3>	release the application layer measurement configuration including its fields in the UE variables VarAppLayerIdleConfig and VarAppLayerPLMN-ListConfig, if stored;
3>	discard any application layer measurement reports which were not yet fully submitted to lower layers for transmission;
3>	consider itself not to be configured to send application layer measurement reports for the measConfigAppLayerId;
2>	discard any application layer measurement reports which were configured to be reported via SRB5 and which were not yet fully submitted to lower layers for transmission;
2>	remove all the entries within the SCG VarConditionalReconfig, if any;
2>	if SCG release was triggered by NR (i.e. NR-DC case):
3>	remove all the entries in the condReconfigList within the MCG VarConditionalReconfig for which subsequentCondReconfig is not present and the RRCReconfiguration within condRRCReconfig does not include the masterCellGroup with reconfigurationWithSync, if any;
3>	remove the servingSecurityCellSetId within the VarServingSecurityCellSetID, if any;
3>	for each entry in the condReconfigList within the MCG VarConditionalReconfig for which subsequentCondReconfig is present:
4>	remove the condExecutionCondSCG, if stored;
2>	else (i.e. EN-DC case):
3>	perform VarConditionalReconfiguration CPC removal as specified in TS 36.331 [10] clause 5.3.5.9.7;
2>	stop timer T310 for the corresponding SpCell, if running;
2>	stop timer T312 for the corresponding SpCell, if running;
2>	stop timer T304 for the corresponding SpCell, if running.
NOTE:	Release of cell group means only release of the lower layer configuration of the cell group but the RadioBearerConfig may not be released.
5.3.5.5	Cell Group configuration
5.3.5.5.1	General
The network configures the UE with Master Cell Group (MCG), and zero or one Secondary Cell Group (SCG). In (NG)EN-DC, the MCG is configured as specified in TS 36.331 [10], and for NE-DC, the SCG is configured as specified in TS 36.331 [10]. The network provides the configuration parameters for a cell group in the CellGroupConfig IE.
The UE performs the following actions based on a received CellGroupConfig IE:
1>	if the CellGroupConfig contains the spCellConfig with reconfigurationWithSync:
2>	perform Reconfiguration with sync according to 5.3.5.5.2;
2>	resume all suspended radio bearers except the SRBs for the source cell group, and resume SCG transmission for all radio bearers, and resume BH RLC channels and resume SCG transmission for BH RLC channels for IAB-MT, if suspended;
NOTE 1:	If the SCG is deactivated, resuming SCG transmission for all radio bearers does not imply that PDCP PDUs can be transmitted or received on SCG RLC bearers.
1>	if the CellGroupConfig contains the rlc-BearerToReleaseList or rlc-BearerToReleaseListExt:
2>	perform RLC bearer release as specified in 5.3.5.5.3;
1>	if the CellGroupConfig contains the rlc-BearerToAddModList:
2>	perform the RLC bearer addition/modification as specified in 5.3.5.5.4;
1>	if the CellGroupConfig contains the mac-CellGroupConfig:
2>	configure the MAC entity of this cell group as specified in 5.3.5.5.5;
1>	if the CellGroupConfig contains the sCellToReleaseList:
2>	perform SCell release as specified in 5.3.5.5.8;
1>	if the CellGroupConfig contains the spCellConfig:
2>	configure the SpCell as specified in 5.3.5.5.7;
1>	if the CellGroupConfig contains the sCellToAddModList:
2>	perform SCell addition/modification as specified in 5.3.5.5.9;
1>	if the CellGroupConfig contains the bh-RLC-ChannelToReleaseList:
2>	perform BH RLC channel release as specified in 5.3.5.5.10;
1>	if the CellGroupConfig contains the bh-RLC-ChannelToAddModList:
2>	perform the BH RLC channel addition/modification as specified in 5.3.5.5.11;
1>	if the CellGroupConfig contains the uu-RelayRLC-ChannelToReleaseList:
2>	perform Uu Relay RLC channel release as specified in 5.3.5.5.12;
1>	if the CellGroupConfig contains the uu-RelayRLC-ChannelToAddModList:
2>	perform the Uu Relay RLC channel addition/modification as specified in 5.3.5.5.13;
1>	if the CellGroupConfig contains the ncr-FwdConfig:
2>	perform the NCR-Fwd configuration as specified in 5.3.5.5.14;
1>	if the CellGroupConfig contains the autonomousDenialParameters:
2>	consider itself to be allowed to deny any transmission in a particular UL slot if during the number of slots indicated by autonomousDenialValidity, preceding and including this particular slot, it autonomously denied fewer UL slots than indicated by autonomousDenialSlots within the same cell group;
NOTE 2:	When counting the number of denied UL slots, the UE sums up the denied UL slots across all serving cells within the same cell group. When counting the number of slots indicated by autonomousDenialValidity, the UE sums up the UL slots across all serving cells within the same cell group.
NOTE 3:	When multiple denied UL slots across all serving cells partially or fully overlap in the time domain, the number of denied UL slots across all serving cells is counted as one denied UL slot, based on the longest slot.
5.3.5.5.2	Reconfiguration with sync
The UE shall perform the following actions to execute a reconfiguration with sync.
1>	if the AS security is not activated, perform the actions upon going to RRC_IDLE as specified in 5.3.11 with the release cause 'other' upon which the procedure ends;
1>	stop timer T430 if running;
1>	if no DAPS bearer is configured:
2>	stop timer T310 for the corresponding SpCell, if running;
1>	if this procedure is executed for the MCG:
2>	if timer T316 is running;
3>	stop timer T316;
3>	if the UE supports RLF-Report for fast MCG recovery procedure as specified in TS 38.306 [26]:
4>	set the elapsedTimeT316 in the VarRLF-Report to the value of the elapsed time of the timer T316;
4>	set the pSCellId in the VarRLF-Report to the global cell identity of the PSCell, if available, otherwise to the physical cell identity and carrier frequency of the PSCell;
3>	else:
4>	clear the information included in VarRLF-Report, if any;
2>	resume MCG transmission, if suspended.
1>	stop timer T312 for the corresponding SpCell, if running;
1>	if sl-PathSwitchConfig is included:
2>	apply the value of the newUE-Identity as the C-RNTI;
2>	if sl-IndirectPathMaintain is not included in reconfigurationWithSync:
3>	if the UE is L2 U2N remote UE at source side:
4>	indicate to upper layer to trigger PC5 unicast link release with the source L2 U2N Relay UE;
3>	consider the target L2 U2N Relay UE to be the one indicated by the targetRelayUE-Identity in the sl-PathSwitchConfig;
3>	start timer T420 for the corresponding target L2 U2N Relay UE with the timer value set to t420, as included in the sl-PathSwitchConfig;
3>	indicate to upper layer (to trigger the PC5 unicast link establishment) with the target L2 U2N Relay UE indicated by the targetRelayUE-Identity;
3>	apply the default configuration of SL-RLC1 as defined in 9.2.4 for SRB1;
2>	else:
3>	consider the connected L2 U2N Relay UE on the indirect path as the target L2 U2N relay UE, and maintain the PC5 connection with the L2 U2N Relay UE;
1>	else (sl-PathSwitchConfig is not included):
2>	if this procedure is executed for the MCG or if this procedure is executed for an SCG not indicated as deactivated in the E-UTRA or NR RRC message in which the RRCReconfiguration message is embedded:
3>	start timer T304 for the corresponding SpCell with the timer value set to t304, as included in the reconfigurationWithSync;
2>	if the frequencyInfoDL is included:
3>	consider the target SpCell to be one on the SSB frequency indicated by the frequencyInfoDL with a physical cell identity indicated by the physCellId;
2>	else:
3>	consider the target SpCell to be one on the SSB frequency of the source SpCell with a physical cell identity indicated by the physCellId;
2>	if this procedure is performed due to an LTM cell switch execution:
3>	start synchronising to the DL of the indicated LTM candidate cell, if no DL synchronization for the indicated LTM candidate cell has been already acquired;
2>	else:
3>	start synchronising to the DL of the target SpCell;
2>	apply the specified BCCH configuration defined in 9.1.1.1 for the target SpCell;
2>	acquire the MIB of the target SpCell, which is scheduled as specified in TS 38.213 [13];
2>	if NTN-Config is configured for the target cell:
3>	start timer T430 with the timer value set to ntn-UlSyncValidityDuration from the subframe indicated by epochTime, according to the target cell NTN-Config;
NOTE 1:	The UE should perform the reconfiguration with sync as soon as possible following the reception of the RRC message triggering the reconfiguration with sync, which could be before confirming successful reception (HARQ and ARQ) of this message.
NOTE 2:	The UE may omit reading the MIB if the UE already has the required timing information, or the timing information is not needed for random access, or if not needed for RACH-less initial UL transmission.
NOTE 2a:	A UE with DAPS bearer does not monitor for system information updates in the source PCell.
2>	If any DAPS bearer is configured:
3>	create a MAC entity for the target cell group with the same configuration as the MAC entity for the source cell group;
3>	for each DAPS bearer:
4>	establish an RLC entity or entities for the target cell group, with the same configurations as for the source cell group;
4>	establish the logical channel for the target cell group, with the same configurations as for the source cell group;
NOTE 2b:	In order to understand if a DAPS bearer is configured, the UE needs to check the presence of the field daps-Config within the RadioBearerConfig IE received in radioBearerConfig or radioBearerConfig2.
3>	for each SRB:
4>	establish an RLC entity for the target cell group, with the same configurations as for the source cell group;
4>	establish the logical channel for the target cell group, with the same configurations as for the source cell group;
3>	suspend SRBs for the source cell group;
NOTE 3:	Void
3>	apply the value of the newUE-Identity as the C-RNTI in the target cell group;
3>	configure lower layers for the target SpCell in accordance with the received spCellConfigCommon;
3>	configure lower layers for the target SpCell in accordance with any additional fields, not covered in the previous, if included in the received reconfigurationWithSync.
2>	else:
3>	reset the MAC entity of this cell group;
3>	consider the SCell(s) of this cell group, if configured, that are not included in the SCellToAddModList in the RRCReconfiguration message, to be in deactivated state;
3>	apply the value of the newUE-Identity as the C-RNTI for this cell group;
3>	configure lower layers in accordance with the received spCellConfigCommon;
3>	if rach-LessHO is included:
4>	configure lower layers in accordance with rach-LessHO for the target SpCell;
3>	configure lower layers in accordance with any additional fields, not covered in the previous, if included in the received reconfigurationWithSync.
2>	if the UE is acting as L2 U2N Remote UE at the source side:
3>	if the sl-IndirectPathMaintain is not included in reconfigurationWithSync:
4>	indicate upper layer to trigger PC5 unicast link release.
Upon L2 U2N Relay UE receiving reconfigurationWithSync, it either indicates to upper layers (to trigger PC5 unicast link release) or sends NotificationMessageSidelink message to the connected L2 U2N Remote UE(s) in accordance with 5.8.9.10.
NOTE 4:	The MP direct path release is realized by direct-to-indirect path switch procedure (i.e. sl-PathSwitchConfig and sl-indirectPathMaintain included in RRCReconfiguration message), where MP is configured in source side.
5.3.5.5.3	RLC bearer release
The UE shall:
1>	for each logicalChannelIdentity/LogicalChannelIdentityExt value included in the rlc-BearerToReleaseList/rlc-BearerToReleaseListExt that is part of the current UE configuration within the same cell group (LCH release); or
1>	for each logicalChannelIdentity value that is to be released as the result of an SCG release according to 5.3.5.4:
2>	release the RLC entity or entities as specified in TS 38.322 [4], clause 5.1.3;
2>	release the corresponding logical channel.
5.3.5.5.4	RLC bearer addition/modification
For each RLC-BearerConfig received in the rlc-BearerToAddModList IE the UE shall:
1>	if the UE's current configuration contains an RLC bearer with the received logicalChannelIdentity/LogicalChannelIdentityExt within the same cell group:
2>	if the RLC bearer is associated with an DAPS bearer, or
2>	if any DAPS bearer is configured and the RLC bearer is associated with an SRB:
3>	reconfigure the RLC entity or entities for the target cell group in accordance with the received rlc-Config;
3>	reconfigure the logical channel for the target cell group in accordance with the received mac-LogicalChannelConfig;
2>	else:
3>	if reestablishRLC is received:
4>	re-establish the RLC entity as specified in TS 38.322 [4];
3>	reconfigure the RLC entity or entities in accordance with the received rlc-Config;
3>	reconfigure the logical channel in accordance with the received mac-LogicalChannelConfig;
3>	if servedMBS-RadioBearer is received:
4>	associate this logical channel with the PDCP entity identified by servedMBS-RadioBearer;
NOTE 1:	For DRB and SRB, the network does not re-associate an already configured logical channel with another radio bearer. Hence, servedRadioBearer is not present in this case. For MRB, the network does not re-associate an already configured logical channel with DRB or SRB or another MRB (i.e. MRB with another PDCP entity). Hence multicastRLC-BearerConfig is not present in this case. If a radio bearer is released and another is added with the same radio bearer identity, it is considered as a new (different) radio bearer. Hence, the network also releases the RLC bearer(s) associated with the released radio bearer.
NOTE 2:	In DAPS handover, the UE may perform RLC entity re-establishment (if reestablishRLC is set) for an RLC bearer associated with a non-DAPS bearer when indication of successful completion of random access towards target cell is received from lower layers as specified in TS 38.321 [3].
1>	else (a logical channel with the given logicalChannelIdentity/LogicalChannelIdentityExt is not configured within the same cell group, including the case when full configuration option is used):
2>	if the servedRadioBearer associates the logical channel with an SRB and rlc-Config is not included:
3>	establish an RLC entity in accordance with the default configuration defined in 9.2 for the corresponding SRB;
2>	else:
3>	establish an RLC entity in accordance with the received rlc-Config;
2>	if the servedRadioBearer associates the logical channel with an SRB and if mac-LogicalChannelConfig is not included:
3>	configure this MAC entity with a logical channel in accordance to the default configuration defined in 9.2 for the corresponding SRB;
2>	else:
3>	configure this MAC entity with a logical channel in accordance to the received mac-LogicalChannelConfig;
2>	associate this logical channel with the PDCP entity identified by servedRadioBearer or servedMBS-RadioBearer.
5.3.5.5.5	MAC entity configuration
The UE shall:
1>	if SCG MAC is not part of the current UE configuration (i.e. SCG establishment):
2>	create an SCG MAC entity;
1>	if any DAPS bearer is configured:
2>	reconfigure the MAC main configuration for the target cell group in accordance with the received mac-CellGroupConfig excluding tag-ToReleaseList and tag-ToAddModList;
1>	else:
2>	reconfigure the MAC main configuration of the cell group in accordance with the received mac-CellGroupConfig excluding tag-ToReleaseList and tag-ToAddModList;
1>	if the received mac-CellGroupConfig includes the tag-ToReleaseList:
2>	for each TAG-Id value included in the tag-ToReleaseList that is part of the current UE configuration:
3>	release the TAG indicated by TAG-Id;
1>	if the received mac-CellGroupConfig includes the tag-ToAddModList:
2>	for each tag-Id value included in tag-ToAddModList that is not part of the current UE configuration (TAG addition):
3>	add the TAG, corresponding to the tag-Id, in accordance with the received timeAlignmentTimer;
2>	for each tag-Id value included in tag-ToAddModList that is part of the current UE configuration (TAG modification):
3>	reconfigure the TAG, corresponding to the tag-Id, in accordance with the received timeAlignmentTimer.
5.3.5.5.6	RLF Timers & Constants configuration
The UE shall:
1>	if the received rlf-TimersAndConstants is set to release:
2>	if any DAPS bearer is configured:
3>	use values for timers T301, T310, T311 and constants N310, N311 for the target cell group, as included in ue-TimersAndConstants received in SIB1;
2>	else:
3>	use values for timers T301, T310, T311 and constants N310, N311, as included in ue-TimersAndConstants received in SIB1;
1>	else:
2>	if any DAPS bearer is configured:
3>	configure the value of timers and constants for the target cell group in accordance with received rlf-TimersAndConstants;
2>	else:
3>	(re-)configure the value of timers and constants in accordance with received rlf-TimersAndConstants;
3>	stop timer T310 for this cell group, if running;
3>	stop timer T312 for this cell group, if running;
3>	reset the counters N310 and N311.
5.3.5.5.7	SpCell Configuration
The UE shall:
1>	if the UE is acting as L2 U2N Remote UE and is not configured with MP:
2>	if the SpCellConfig contains the rlf-TimersAndConstants which is set to setup:
3>	use value for timers T311 as received in rlf-TimersAndConstants;
2>	else if rlf-TimersAndConstants is not configured for this cell group or SpCellConfig contains the rlf-TimersAndConstants which is set to release:
3>	use value for timers T311, as included in ue-TimersAndConstants received in SIB1;
1>	else
2>	if the SpCellConfig contains the rlf-TimersAndConstants:
3>	configure the RLF timers and constants for this cell group as specified in 5.3.5.5.6;
2>	else if rlf-TimersAndConstants is not configured for this cell group:
3>	if any DAPS bearer is configured:
4>	use values for timers T301, T310, T311 and constants N310, N311 for the target cell group, as included in ue-TimersAndConstants received in SIB1;
3>	else
4>	use values for timers T301, T310, T311 and constants N310, N311, as included in ue-TimersAndConstants received in SIB1;
2>	if the SpCellConfig contains spCellConfigDedicated:
3>	configure the SpCell in accordance with the spCellConfigDedicated;
3>	consider the bandwidth part indicated in firstActiveUplinkBWP-Id, if included in the spCellConfigDedicated, to be the active uplink bandwidth part;
3>	if the firstActiveDownlinkBWP-Id is included in the spCellConfigDedicated:
4>	if the SpCellConfig is included in an RRCReconfiguration message contained in an NR or E-UTRA RRC message indicating that the SCG is deactivated:
5>	consider the bandwidth part indicated in firstActiveDownlinkBWP-Id to be the bandwidth part for Radio Link Monitoring, Beam Failure Detection and measurements;
4>	else:
5>	consider the bandwith part indicated in firstActiveDownlinkBWP-Id to be the active downlink bandwidth part;
3>	if any of the reference signal(s) that are used for radio link monitoring are reconfigured by the received spCellConfigDedicated:
4>	stop timer T310 for the corresponding SpCell, if running;
4>	stop timer T312 for the corresponding SpCell, if running;
4>	reset the counters N310 and N311.
1>	if the SpCellConfig contains the lowMobilityEvaluationConnected:
2>	the UE may perform the evaluation of the low mobility criterion for this cell group as specified in 5.7.13.1;
1>	if the SpCellConfig contains the goodServingCellEvaluationRLM:
2>	the UE may perform the evaluation of the good serving cell quality criterion for this SpCell as specified in 5.7.13.2;
1>	if the SpCellConfig contains the goodServingCellEvaluationBFD:
2>	the UE may perform the evaluation of the good serving cell quality criterion for this serving cell as specified in 5.7.13.2;
5.3.5.5.8	SCell Release
The UE shall:
1>	if the release is triggered by reception of the sCellToReleaseList:
2>	for each sCellIndex value included in the sCellToReleaseList:
3>	if the current UE configuration includes an SCell with value sCellIndex:
4>	release the SCell.
5.3.5.5.9	SCell Addition/Modification
The UE shall:
1>	for each sCellIndex value included in the sCellToAddModList that is not part of the current UE configuration (SCell addition):
2>	add the SCell, corresponding to the sCellIndex, in accordance with the sCellConfigCommon and sCellConfigDedicated;
2>	if the sCellState is included:
3>	configure lower layers to consider the SCell to be in activated state;
2>	else:
3>	configure lower layers to consider the SCell to be in deactivated state;
2>	for each measId included in the measIdList within VarMeasConfig:
3>	if SCells are not applicable for the associated measurement; and
3>	if the concerned SCell is included in cellsTriggeredList defined within the VarMeasReportList for this measId:
4>	remove the concerned SCell from cellsTriggeredList defined within the VarMeasReportList for this measId;
2>	if the SCellConfig contains the goodServingCellEvaluationBFD:
3>	the UE may perform the evaluation of the good serving cell quality criterion for this serving cell as specified in 5.7.13.2.
1>	for each sCellIndex value included in the sCellToAddModList that is part of the current UE configuration (SCell modification):
2>	modify the SCell configuration in accordance with the sCellConfigDedicated;
2>	if the sCellToAddModList was received in an RRCReconfiguration message including reconfigurationWithSync, or received in an RRCResume message, or received in an RRCReconfiguration message including reconfigurationWithSync embedded in an RRCResume message or embedded in an RRCReconfiguration message or embedded in an E-UTRA RRCConnectionReconfiguration message or embedded in an E-UTRA RRCConnectionResume message, or received in an RRCReconfiguration message embedded in an RRCReconfiguration message or embedded in an E-UTRA RRCConnectionReconfiguration message activating deactivated SCG:
3>	if the sCellState is included:
4>	configure lower layers to consider the SCell to be in activated state;
3>	else:
4>	configure lower layers to consider the SCell to be in deactivated state.
2>	if the SCellConfig contains the goodServingCellEvaluationBFD:
3>	the UE may perform the evaluation of the good serving cell quality criterion for this serving cell as specified in 5.7.13.2.
5.3.5.5.10	BH RLC channel release
The IAB-node shall:
1>	for each BH-RLC-ChannelID value included in the bh-RLC-ChannelToReleaseList that is part of the current IAB-node configuration within the same cell group (LCH release); or
1>	for each BH-RLC-ChannelID value that is to be released as the result of an SCG release according to 5.3.5.4:
2>	release the RLC entity or entities as specified in TS 38.322 [4], clause 5.1.3;
2>	release the corresponding logical channel.
5.3.5.5.11	BH RLC channel addition/modification
For each BH-RLC-ChannelConfig received in the bh-RLC-ChannelToAddModList IE the IAB-node shall:
1>	if the current configuration contains a BH RLC Channel with the received bh-RLC-ChannelID within the same cell group:
2>	if reestablishRLC is received:
3>	re-establish the RLC entity as specified in TS 38.322 [4];
2>	reconfigure the RLC entity or entities in accordance with the received rlc-Config;
2>	reconfigure the logical channel in accordance with the received mac-LogicalChannelConfig;
1>	else (a backhaul logical channel with the given BH-RLC-ChannelID was not configured before within the same cell group):
2>	establish an RLC entity in accordance with the received rlc-Config;
2>	configure this MAC entity with a logical channel in accordance to the received mac-LogicalChannelConfig.
5.3.5.5.12	Uu Relay RLC channel release
The L2 U2N Relay UE or N3C relay UE shall:
1>	for each Uu-RelayRLC-ChannelID value included in the uu-RelayRLC-ChannelToReleaseList that is part of the current configuration within the same cell group (LCH release):
2>	release the RLC entity as specified in TS 38.322 [4], clause 5.1.3;
2>	release the corresponding logical channel.
5.3.5.5.13	Uu Relay RLC channel addition/modification
For each Uu-RelayRLC-ChannelConfig received in the uu-RelayRLC-ChannelToAddModList the L2 U2N Relay UE or N3C relay UE shall:
1>	if the current configuration contains a Uu Relay RLC channel with the same uu-RelayRLC-ChannelID within the same cell group:
2>	if reestablishRLC is received:
3>	re-establish the RLC entity as specified in TS 38.322 [4];
2>	reconfigure the RLC entity in accordance with the received rlc-Config;
2>	reconfigure the logical channel in accordance with the received mac-LogicalChannelConfig;
1>	else (a logical channel with the given uu-RelayRLC-ChannelID was not configured before within the same cell group):
2>	establish an RLC entity in accordance with the received rlc-Config;
2>	configure this MAC entity with a logical channel in accordance to the received mac-LogicalChannelConfig.
5.3.5.5.14	NCR-Fwd configuration
The NCR-MT shall:
1>	if ncr-FwdConfig is set to setup:
2>	if ncr-FwdConfig includes periodic forwarding resource configuration:
3>	indicate to NCR-Fwd to forward in accordance with the configured periodic forwarding resource set(s);
1>	else (ncr-FwdConfig is set to release):
2>	release ncr-FwdConfig;
2>	indicate to NCR-Fwd to cease forwarding.
5.3.5.6	Radio Bearer configuration
5.3.5.6.1	General
The UE shall perform the following actions based on a received RadioBearerConfig IE:
1>	if the RadioBearerConfig includes the srb3-ToRelease, srb4-ToRelease or srb5-ToRelease:
2>	perform the SRB release as specified in 5.3.5.6.2;
1>	if the RadioBearerConfig includes the srb-ToAddModList, srb4-ToAddMod or srb5-ToAddMod or if any DAPS bearer is configured:
2>	perform the SRB addition or reconfiguration as specified in 5.3.5.6.3;
1>	if the RadioBearerConfig includes the drb-ToReleaseList:
2>	perform DRB release as specified in 5.3.5.6.4;
1>	if the RadioBearerConfig includes the drb-ToAddModList:
2>	perform DRB addition or reconfiguration as specified in 5.3.5.6.5;
1>	if the RadioBearerConfig includes the mrb-ToReleaseList:
2>	perform multicast MRB release as specified in 5.3.5.6.6;
1>	if the RadioBearerConfig includes the mrb-ToAddModList:
2>	perform multicast MRB addition or reconfiguration as specified in 5.3.5.6.7;
1>	release all SDAP entities established for the PDU sessions, if any, that have no associated DRB as specified in TS 37.324 [24] clause 5.1.2, and indicate the release of the user plane resources for PDU Sessions associated with the released SDAP entities to upper layers;
1>	release all SDAP entities established for the MBS multicast sessions, if any, that have no associated multicast MRB as specified in TS 37.324 [24] clause 5.1.2, and indicate the release of user plane resources for these MBS multicast sessions to upper layers.
5.3.5.6.2	SRB release
The UE shall:
1>	if srb3-ToRelease is included:
2>	release the PDCP entity and the srb-Identity of the SRB3;
1>	if srb4-ToRelease is included
2>	release the PDCP entity and the srb-Identity of the SRB4;
1>	if srb5-ToRelease is included:
2>	release the PDCP entity and the srb-Identity of the SRB5.
5.3.5.6.3	SRB addition/modification
The UE shall:
1>	If any DAPS bearer is configured, for each SRB:
2>	establish a PDCP entity for the target cell group as specified in TS 38.323 [5], with the same configuration as the PDCP entity for the source cell group;
2>	if the masterKeyUpdate is received:
3>	configure the PDCP entity with the security algorithms according to securityConfig and apply the keys (KRRCenc and KRRCint) associated with the master key (KgNB);
2>	else:
3>	configure the PDCP entity for the target cell group with state variables continuation as specified in TS 38.323 [5], and with the same security configuration as the PDCP entity for the source cell group;
1>	for each srb-Identity value included in the srb-ToAddModList, srb4-ToAddMod or srb5-ToAddMod that is not part of the current UE configuration (SRB establishment or reconfiguration from E-UTRA PDCP to NR PDCP):
2>	establish a PDCP entity;
2>	if AS security has been activated:
3>	if target RAT of handover is E-UTRA/5GC; or
3>	if the UE is connected to E-UTRA/5GC:
4>	if the UE is capable of E-UTRA/5GC, but not capable of NGEN-DC:
5>	configure the PDCP entity with the security algorithms and keys (KRRCenc and KRRCint) configured/derived as specified in TS 36.331 [10];
4>	else (i.e., UE capable of NGEN-DC):
5>	configure the PDCP entity with the security algorithms according to securityConfig and apply the keys (KRRCenc and KRRCint) associated with the master key (KeNB) or secondary key (S-KgNB) as indicated in keyToUse, if applicable;
3>	else (i.e., UE connected to NR or UE connected to E-UTRA/EPC):
4>	configure the PDCP entity with the security algorithms according to securityConfig and apply the keys (KRRCenc and KRRCint) associated with the master key (KeNB/ KgNB) or secondary key (S-KgNB) as indicated in keyToUse, if applicable;
2>	if the current UE configuration as configured by E-UTRA in TS 36.331 [10] includes an SRB identified with the same srb-Identity value:
3>	associate the E-UTRA RLC entity and DCCH of this SRB with the NR PDCP entity;
3>	release the E-UTRA PDCP entity of this SRB;
2>	if the pdcp-Config is included:
3>	configure the PDCP entity in accordance with the received pdcp-Config;
2>	else:
3>	configure the PDCP entity in accordance with the default configuration defined in 9.2.1 for the corresponding SRB;
1>	if any DAPS bearer is configured, for each srb-Identity value included in the srb-ToAddModList that is part of the current UE configuration:
2>	if the pdcp-Config is included:
3>	reconfigure the PDCP entity for the target cell group in accordance with the received pdcp-Config;
1>	else, for each srb-Identity value included in the srb-ToAddModList, srb4-ToAddMod or srb5-ToAddMod that is part of the current UE configuration:
2>	if the reestablishPDCP is set:
3>	if target RAT of handover is E-UTRA/5GC; or
3>	if the UE is connected to E-UTRA/5GC:
4>	if the UE is capable of E-UTRA/5GC, but not capable of NGEN-DC:
5>	configure the PDCP entity to apply the integrity protection algorithm and KRRCint key configured/derived as specified in TS 36.331 [10], i.e. the integrity protection configuration shall be applied to all subsequent messages received and sent by the UE, including the message used to indicate the successful completion of the procedure;
5>	configure the PDCP entity to apply the ciphering algorithm and KRRCenc key configured/derived as specified in TS 36.331 [10], i.e. the ciphering configuration shall be applied to all subsequent messages received and sent by the UE, including the message used to indicate the successful completion of the procedure;
4>	else (i.e., a UE capable of NGEN-DC):
5>	configure the PDCP entity to apply the integrity protection algorithm and KRRCint key associated with the master key (KeNB) or secondary key (S-KgNB), as indicated in keyToUse, i.e. the integrity protection configuration shall be applied to all subsequent messages received and sent by the UE, including the message used to indicate the successful completion of the procedure;
5>	configure the PDCP entity to apply the ciphering algorithm and KRRCenc key associated with the master key (KeNB) or secondary key (S-KgNB) as indicated in keyToUse, i.e. the ciphering configuration shall be applied to all subsequent messages received and sent by the UE, including the message used to indicate the successful completion of the procedure;
3>	else (i.e., UE connected to NR or UE in EN-DC):
4>	configure the PDCP entity to apply the integrity protection algorithm and KRRCint key associated with the master key (KeNB/KgNB) or secondary key (S-KgNB), as indicated in keyToUse , i.e. the integrity protection configuration shall be applied to all subsequent messages received and sent by the UE, including the message used to indicate the successful completion of the procedure;
4>	configure the PDCP entity to apply the ciphering algorithm and KRRCenc key associated with the master key (KeNB/KgNB) or secondary key (S-KgNB) as indicated in keyToUse, i.e. the ciphering configuration shall be applied to all subsequent messages received and sent by the UE, including the message used to indicate the successful completion of the procedure;
3>	re-establish the PDCP entity of this SRB as specified in TS 38.323 [5];
2>	else, if the discardOnPDCP is set:
3>	trigger the PDCP entity to perform SDU discard as specified in TS 38.323 [5];
2>	if the pdcp-Config is included:
3>	reconfigure the PDCP entity in accordance with the received pdcp-Config.
5.3.5.6.4	DRB release
The UE shall:
1>	for each drb-Identity value included in the drb-ToReleaseList that is part of the current UE configuration; or
1>	for each drb-Identity value that is to be released as the result of full configuration according to 5.3.5.11:
2>	release the PDCP entity and the drb-Identity;
2>	if SDAP entity associated with this DRB is configured:
3>	indicate the release of the DRB to SDAP entity associated with this DRB (TS 37.324 [24], clause 5.3.3);
2>	if the DRB is associated with an eps-BearerIdentity:
3>	if a new bearer is not added either with NR or E-UTRA with same eps-BearerIdentity:
4>	indicate the release of the DRB and the eps-BearerIdentity of the released DRB to upper layers.
NOTE 1:	The UE does not consider the message as erroneous if the drb-ToReleaseList includes any drb-Identity value that is not part of the current UE configuration.
NOTE 2:	Whether or not the RLC and MAC entities associated with this PDCP entity are reset or released is determined by the CellGroupConfig.
5.3.5.6.5	DRB addition/modification
The UE shall:
1>	for each drb-Identity value included in the drb-ToAddModList that is not part of the current UE configuration (DRB establishment including the case when full configuration option is used):
2>	establish a PDCP entity and configure it in accordance with the received pdcp-Config;
2>	if the PDCP entity of this DRB is not configured with cipheringDisabled:
3>	if target RAT of handover is E-UTRA/5GC; or
3>	if the UE is connected to E-UTRA/5GC:
4>	if the UE is capable of E-UTRA/5GC but not capable of NGEN-DC:
5>	configure the PDCP entity with the ciphering algorithm and KUPenc key configured/derived as specified in TS 36.331 [10];
4>	else (i.e., a UE capable of NGEN-DC):
5>	configure the PDCP entity with the ciphering algorithms according to securityConfig and apply the key (KUPenc) associated with the master key (KeNB) or secondary key (S-KgNB) as indicated in keyToUse, if applicable;
3>	else (i.e., UE connected to NR or UE connected to E-UTRA/EPC):
4>	configure the PDCP entity with the ciphering algorithms according to securityConfig and apply the KUPenc key associated with the master key (KeNB/KgNB) or the secondary key (S-KgNB/S-KeNB) as indicated in keyToUse;
2>	if the PDCP entity of this DRB is configured with integrityProtection:
3>	configure the PDCP entity with the integrity protection algorithms according to securityConfig and apply the KUPint key associated with the master (KeNB/KgNB) or the secondary key (S-KgNB) as indicated in keyToUse;
2>	if an sdap-Config is included:
3>	if an SDAP entity with the received pdu-Session does not exist:
4>	establish an SDAP entity as specified in TS 37.324 [24] clause 5.1.1;
4>	if an SDAP entity with the received pdu-Session did not exist prior to receiving this reconfiguration:
5>	indicate the establishment of the user plane resources for the pdu-Session to upper layers;
3>	configure the SDAP entity in accordance with the received sdap-Config as specified in TS 37.324 [24] and associate the DRB with the SDAP entity;
3>	for each QFI value added in mappedQoS-FlowsToAdd, if the QFI value is previously configured, the QFI value is released from the old DRB;
2>	if the DRB is associated with an eps-BearerIdentity:
3>	if the DRB was configured with the same eps-BearerIdentity either by NR or E-UTRA prior to receiving this reconfiguration:
4>	associate the established DRB with the corresponding eps-BearerIdentity;
3>	else:
4>	indicate the establishment of the DRB(s) and the eps-BearerIdentity of the established DRB(s) to upper layers;
2>	if the n3c-BearerAssociated is included for a DRB:
3>	consider this radio bearer to be associated with the N3C indirect path;
1>	for each drb-Identity value included in the drb-ToAddModList that is part of the current UE configuration and configured as DAPS bearer:
2>	reconfigure the PDCP entity to configure DAPS with the ciphering function, integrity protection function and ROHC function of the target cell group as specified in TS 38.323 [5] and configure it in accordance with the received pdcp-Config;
2>	if the masterKeyUpdate is received:
3>	if the ciphering function of the target cell group PDCP entity is not configured with cipheringDisabled:
4>	configure the ciphering function of the target cell group PDCP entity with the ciphering algorithm according to securityConfig and apply the KUPenc key associated with the master key (KgNB), as indicated in keyToUse, i.e. the ciphering configuration shall be applied to all subsequent PDCP PDUs received from the target cell group and sent to the target cell group by the UE;
3>	if the integrity protection function of the target cell group PDCP entity is configured with integrityProtection:
4>	configure the integrity protection function of the target cell group PDCP entity with the integrity protection algorithms according to securityConfig and apply the KUPint key associated with the master key (KgNB) as indicated in keyToUse;
2>	else:
3>	configure the ciphering function and the integrity protection function of the target cell group PDCP entity with the same security configuration as the PDCP entity for the source cell group;
2>	if the sdap-Config is included and when indication of successful completion of random access towards target cell is received from lower layers as specified in [3]:
3>	reconfigure the SDAP entity in accordance with the received sdap-Config as specified in TS 37.324 [24];
3>	for each QFI value added in mappedQoS-FlowsToAdd, if the QFI value is previously configured, the QFI value is released from the old DRB;
1>	for each drb-Identity value included in the drb-ToAddModList that is part of the current UE configuration and not configured as DAPS bearer:
2>	if the reestablishPDCP is set:
3>	if target RAT of handover is E-UTRA/5GC; or
3>	if the UE is connected to E-UTRA/5GC:
4>	if the UE is capable of E-UTRA/5GC but not capable of NGEN-DC:
5>	if the PDCP entity of this DRB is not configured with cipheringDisabled:
6>	configure the PDCP entity with the ciphering algorithm and KUPenc key configured/derived as specified in TS 36.331 [10], clause 5.4.2.3, i.e. the ciphering configuration shall be applied to all subsequent PDCP PDUs received and sent by the UE;
4>	else (i.e., a UE capable of NGEN-DC):
5>	if the PDCP entity of this DRB is not configured with cipheringDisabled:
6>	configure the PDCP entity with the ciphering algorithm and KUPenc key associated with the master key (KeNB) or the secondary key (S-KgNB), as indicated in keyToUse, i.e. the ciphering configuration shall be applied to all subsequent PDCP PDUs received and sent by the UE;
3>	else (i.e., UE connected to NR or UE connected to E-UTRA/EPC (in EN-DC or capable of EN-DC)):
4>	if the PDCP entity of this DRB is not configured with cipheringDisabled:
5>	configure the PDCP entity with the ciphering algorithm and KUPenc key associated with the master key (KeNB/ KgNB) or the secondary key (S-KgNB/S-KeNB), as indicated in keyToUse, i.e. the ciphering configuration shall be applied to all subsequent PDCP PDUs received and sent by the UE;
4>	if the PDCP entity of this DRB is configured with integrityProtection:
5>	configure the PDCP entity with the integrity protection algorithms according to securityConfig and apply the KUPint key associated with the master key (KeNB/KgNB) or the secondary key (S-KgNB) as indicated in keyToUse;
3>	if drb-ContinueROHC is included in pdcp-Config:
4>	indicate to lower layer that drb-ContinueROHC is configured;
3>	if drb-ContinueEHC-DL is included in pdcp-Config:
4>	indicate to lower layer that drb-ContinueEHC-DL is configured;
3>	if drb-ContinueEHC-UL is included in pdcp-Config:
4>	indicate to lower layer that drb-ContinueEHC-UL is configured;
3>	if drb-ContinueUDC is included in pdcp-Config:
4>	indicate to lower layer that drb-ContinueUDC is configured;
3>	re-establish the PDCP entity of this DRB as specified in TS 38.323 [5], clause 5.1.2;
2>	else, if the recoverPDCP is set:
3>	trigger the PDCP entity of this DRB to perform data recovery as specified in TS 38.323 [5];
2>	if the pdcp-Config is included:
3>	reconfigure the PDCP entity in accordance with the received pdcp-Config.
2>	if the sdap-Config is included:
3>	reconfigure the SDAP entity in accordance with the received sdap-Config as specified in TS37.324 [24];
3>	for each QFI value added in mappedQoS-FlowsToAdd, if the QFI value is previously configured, the QFI value is released from the old DRB;
2>	if the n3c-BearerAssociated is included for a DRB:
3>	consider this radio bearer to be associated with the N3C indirect path;
NOTE 1:	Void.
NOTE 2:	When determining whether a drb-Identity value is part of the current UE configuration, the UE does not distinguish which RadioBearerConfig and DRB-ToAddModList that DRB was originally configured in. To re-associate a DRB with a different key (KeNB to S-KgNB, KgNB to S-KeNB, KgNB to S-KgNB, or vice versa), the network provides the drb-Identity value in the (target) drb-ToAddModList and sets the reestablishPDCP flag. The network does not list the drb-Identity in the (source) drb-ToReleaseList.
NOTE 3:	When setting the reestablishPDCP flag for a radio bearer, the network ensures that the RLC receiver entities do not deliver old PDCP PDUs to the re-established PDCP entity. It does that e.g. by triggering a reconfiguration with sync of the cell group hosting the old RLC entity or by releasing the old RLC entity.
NOTE 4:	In this specification, UE configuration refers to the parameters configured by NR RRC unless otherwise stated.
NOTE 5: Ciphering and integrity protection can be enabled or disabled for a DRB. The enabling/disabling of ciphering or integrity protection can be changed only by releasing and adding the DRB.
NOTE 6:	In DAPS handover, the UE may perform PDCP entity re-establishment (if reestablishPDCP is set) or the PDCP data recovery (if recoverPDCP is set) for a non-DAPS bearer when indication of successful completion of random access towards target cell is received from lower layers as specified in TS 38.321 [3]. In this case, the UE suspends data transmission and reception for all non-DAPS bearers in the source MCG for duration of the DAPS handover.
5.3.5.6.6	Multicast MRB release
The UE shall:
1>	for each mrb-Identity value included in the mrb-ToReleaseList that is part of the current UE configuration; or
1>	for each mrb-Identity value that is to be released as the result of full configuration according to 5.3.5.11:
2>	release the PDCP entity and the mrb-Identity;
NOTE 1:	The UE does not consider the message as erroneous if the mrb-ToReleaseList includes any mrb-Identity value that is not part of the current UE configuration.
NOTE 2:	Whether or not the RLC and MAC entities associated with this PDCP entity are reset or released is determined by the CellGroupConfig.
5.3.5.6.7	Multicast MRB addition/modification
The UE shall for each element in the order of entry in the list mrb-ToAddModList:
1>	if mrb-Identity value included in the mrb-ToAddModList is part of the UE configuration:
2>	if mrb-Identity value included in the mrb-ToAddModList for which mrb-IdentityNew is included (i.e., multicast MRB ID change):
3>	update the mrb-Identity to the value mrb-IdentityNew;
2>	if the reestablishPDCP is set:
3>	if drb-ContinueROHC is included in pdcp-Config:
4>	indicate to lower layer that drb-ContinueROHC is configured;
3>	if drb-ContinueEHC-DL is included in pdcp-Config:
4>	indicate to lower layer that drb-ContinueEHC-DL is configured;
3>	re-establish the PDCP entity of this multicast MRB as specified in TS 38.323 [5], clause 5.1.2;
2>	else, if the recoverPDCP is set:
3>	trigger the PDCP entity of this MRB to perform data recovery as specified in TS 38.323 [5];
2>	if the pdcp-Config is included:
3>	reconfigure the PDCP entity in accordance with the received pdcp-Config;
1>	else if mrb-Identity value included in the mrb-ToAddModList is not part of the UE configuration (i.e., multicast MRB establishment including the case when full configuration option is used):
2>	establish a PDCP entity and configure it in accordance with the received pdcp-Config;
2>	associate the established multicast MRB with the corresponding mbs-SessionId;
2>	if an SDAP entity with the received mbs-SessionId does not exist:
3>	establish an SDAP entity as specified in TS 37.324 [24] clause 5.1.1;
3>	if an SDAP entity with the received mbs-SessionId did not exist prior to receiving this reconfiguration:
4>	indicate the establishment of the user plane resources for the mbs-SessionId to upper layers.
NOTE 1:	When setting the reestablishPDCP flag for a radio bearer, the network ensures that the RLC receiver entities do not deliver old PDCP PDUs to the re-established PDCP entity. The network does that e.g. by triggering a reconfiguration with sync of the cell group hosting the old RLC entity or by releasing the old RLC entity.
NOTE 2:	In this specification, UE configuration refers to the parameters configured by NR RRC unless otherwise stated.
NOTE 3:	When updating the mrb-Identity, the network ensures new MRBs are listed at the end of the mrb-ToAddModList if they have the same MRB ID as in the existing UE configuration.
5.3.5.7	AS Security key update
The UE shall:
1>	if UE is connected to E-UTRA/EPC or E-UTRA/5GC:
2>	upon reception of sk-Counter as specified in TS 36.331 [10]:
3>	update the S-KgNB key based on the KeNB key and using the received sk-Counter value, as specified in TS 33.401 [30] for EN-DC, or TS 33.501 [11] for NGEN-DC;
3>	derive the KRRCenc and KUPenc keys as specified in TS 33.401 [30] for EN-DC, or TS 33.501 [11] for NGEN-DC;
3>	derive the KRRCint and KUPint keys as specified in TS 33.401 [30] for EN-DC or TS 33.501 [11] for NGEN-DC.
1>	else if this procedure was initiated due to reception of the masterKeyUpdate:
2>	if the nas-Container is included in the received masterKeyUpdate:
3>	forward the nas-Container to the upper layers;
2>	if the keySetChangeIndicator is set to true:
3>	derive or update the KgNB key based on the KAMF key, as specified in TS 33.501 [11];
2>	else:
3>	derive or update the KgNB key based on the current KgNB key or the NH, using the nextHopChainingCount value indicated in the received masterKeyUpdate, as specified in TS 33.501 [11];
2>	store the nextHopChainingCount value;
2>	derive the keys associated with the KgNB key as follows:
3>	if the securityAlgorithmConfig is included in SecurityConfig:
4>	derive the KRRCenc and KUPenc keys associated with the cipheringAlgorithm indicated in the securityAlgorithmConfig, as specified in TS 33.501 [11];
4>	derive the KRRCint and KUPint keys associated with the integrityProtAlgorithm indicated in the securityAlgorithmConfig, as specified in TS 33.501 [11];
3>	else:
4>	derive the KRRCenc and KUPenc keys associated with the current cipheringAlgorithm, as specified in TS 33.501 [11];
4>	derive the KRRCint and KUPint keys associated with the current integrityProtAlgorithm, as specified in TS 33.501 [11].
NOTE 1:	Ciphering and integrity protection are optional to configure for the DRBs.
1>	else if this procedure was initiated due to reception of the sk-Counter (UE is in NE-DC, or NR-DC, or is configured with SN terminated bearer(s)) or if the procedure was initiated due to selection of an sk-Counter for  conditional reconfiguration execution for subsequent CPAC (UE is in NR-DC):
2>	derive or update the secondary key (S-KgNB or S-KeNB) based on the KgNB key and using the received or selected sk-Counter value, as specified in TS 33.501 [11];
2>	derive the KRRCenc key and the KUPenc key as specified in TS 33.501 [11] using the ciphering algorithms indicated in the RadioBearerConfig associated with the secondary key (S-KgNB or S-KeNB) as indicated by keyToUse;
2>	derive the KRRCint key and the KUPint key as specified in TS 33.501 [11] using the integrity protection algorithms indicated in the RadioBearerConfig associated with the secondary key (S-KgNB or S-KeNB) as indicated by keyToUse;
NOTE 2:	If the UE has no radio bearer configured with keyToUse set to secondary and receives the sk-Counter or an sk-Counter is selected for subsequent CPAC without any RadioBearerConfig with keyToUse set to secondary, the UE does not consider it as an invalid reconfiguration.
5.3.5.8	Reconfiguration failure
5.3.5.8.1	Void
5.3.5.8.2	Inability to comply with RRCReconfiguration
NOTE 00:	The UE behaviour specified in this clause does not apply to the following, and the UE ignores, i.e. does not take an action on and does not store, the fields that it does not support or does not comprehend:
-	The fields in ServingCellConfigCommon that are defined in Rel-16 and later.
-	The fields of searchSpaceMCCH and searchSpaceMTCH in PDCCH-ConfigCommon that are defined in Rel-17 and later.
The UE shall:
1>	if the UE is in (NG)EN-DC:
2>	if the UE is unable to comply with (part of) the configuration included in the RRCReconfiguration message received over SRB3;
3>	if the RRCReconfiguration message was received as part of ConditionalReconfiguration:
4>	continue using the configuration used prior to when the inability to comply with the RRCReconfiguration message was detected;
3>	else:
4>	continue using the configuration used prior to the reception of RRCReconfiguration message;
3>	if MCG transmission is not suspended:
4>	initiate the SCG failure information procedure as specified in clause 5.7.3 to report SCG reconfiguration error, upon which the connection reconfiguration procedure ends;
3>	else:
4>	initiate the connection re-establishment procedure as specified in TS 36.331 [10], clause 5.3.7, upon which the connection reconfiguration procedure ends;
2>	else, if the UE is unable to comply with (part of) the configuration included in the RRCReconfiguration message received over SRB1;
3>	if the RRCReconfiguration message was received as part of ConditionalReconfiguration:
4>	continue using the configuration used prior to when the inability to comply with the RRCReconfiguration message was detected;
3>	else:
4>	continue using the configuration used prior to the reception of RRCReconfiguration message;
3>	initiate the connection re-establishment procedure as specified in TS 36.331 [10], clause 5.3.7, upon which the connection reconfiguration procedure ends.
1>	else if RRCReconfiguration is received via NR (i.e., NR standalone, NE-DC, or NR-DC):
2>	if the UE is unable to comply with (part of) the configuration included in the RRCReconfiguration message received over SRB3;
NOTE 0:	This case does not apply in NE-DC.
3>	if the RRCReconfiguration message was received as part of ConditionalReconfiguration; or,
3>	if the RRCReconfiguration message was received as part of ltm-Config:
4>	continue using the configuration used prior to when the inability to comply with the RRCReconfiguration message was detected;
3>	else:
4>	continue using the configuration used prior to the reception of RRCReconfiguration message;
3>	if MCG transmission is not suspended:
4>	initiate the SCG failure information procedure as specified in clause 5.7.3 to report SCG reconfiguration error, upon which the connection reconfiguration procedure ends;
3>	else:
4>	initiate the connection re-establishment procedure as specified in clause 5.3.7, upon which the connection reconfiguration procedure ends;
2>	else if the UE is unable to comply with (part of) the configuration included in the RRCReconfiguration message received over the SRB1 or if the upper layers indicate that the nas-Container is invalid:
NOTE 0a:	The compliance also covers the SCG configuration carried within octet strings e.g. field mrdc-SecondaryCellGroupConfig. I.e. the failure behaviour defined also applies in case the UE cannot comply with the embedded SCG configuration or with the combination of (parts of) the MCG and SCG configurations.
NOTE 0b:	The compliance also covers the V2X sidelink configuration carried within an octet string, e.g. field sl-ConfigDedicatedEUTRA. I.e. the failure behaviour defined also applies in case the UE cannot comply with the embedded V2X sidelink configuration.
3>	if the RRCReconfiguration message was received as part of ConditionalReconfiguration; or,
3>	if the RRCReconfiguration message was received as part of ltm-Config:
4>	continue using the configuration used prior to when the inability to comply with the RRCReconfiguration message was detected;
3>	else:
4>	continue using the configuration used prior to the reception of RRCReconfiguration message;
3>	if AS security has not been activated:
4>	perform the actions upon going to RRC_IDLE as specified in 5.3.11, with release cause 'other'
3>	else if AS security has been activated but SRB2 and at least one DRB or multicast MRB or, for IAB and NCR, SRB2, have not been setup:
4>	perform the actions upon going to RRC_IDLE as specified in 5.3.11, with release cause 'RRC connection failure';
3>	else:
4>	initiate the connection re-establishment procedure as specified in 5.3.7, upon which the reconfiguration procedure ends;
1>	else if RRCReconfiguration is received via other RAT (Handover to NR failure):
2>	if the UE is unable to comply with any part of the configuration included in the RRCReconfiguration message or if the upper layers indicate that the nas-Container is invalid:
3>	perform the actions defined for this failure case as defined in the specifications applicable for the other RAT.
NOTE 1:	The UE may apply above failure handling also in case the RRCReconfiguration message causes a protocol error for which the generic error handling as defined in clause 10 specifies that the UE shall ignore the message.
NOTE 2:	If the UE is unable to comply with part of the configuration, it does not apply any part of the configuration, i.e. there is no partial success/failure, except for the MUSIM case (i.e. the UE is configured to provide MUSIM assistance information for temporary capability restriction and is unable to apply (part of) the configuration resulting from RRCReconfiguration message due to UE temporary capability restriction for MUSIM operation). For the MUSIM case, the UE does not apply above failure handling, and it is up to UE implementation how to apply RRCReconfiguration message. If UE does not perform RRC reconfiguration failure in this case, UE will provide MUSIM assistance information for temporary capability restriction as specified in 5.7.4 and still considers the configuration resulting from RRCReconfiguration message as the current configuration and baseline for delta configuration for future reconfigurations.
NOTE 3:	It is up to UE implementation whether the compliance check for an RRCReconfiguration received as part of ConditionalReconfiguration is performed upon the reception of the message or upon CHO, CPA, CPC, and subsequent CPAC execution (when the message is required to be applied).
NOTE 4:	It is up to UE implementation whether the compliance check for an RRCReconfiguration message received as part of an LTM-Config IE is performed upon the reception of the message or during an LTM cell switch procedure (when the message is required to be applied).
5.3.5.8.3	T304 expiry (Reconfiguration with sync Failure) or T420 expiry (Path switch failure)
The UE shall:
1>	if T304 of the MCG expires; or
1> if T420 expires; or,
1> if the target L2 U2N Relay UE (i.e., the UE indicated by targetRelayUE-Identity in the received RRCReconfiguration message containing reconfigurationWithSync indicating path switch as specified in 5.3.5.5.2) changes its serving PCell before path switch:
2>	release dedicated preambles provided in rach-ConfigDedicated if configured;
2>	release dedicated msgA PUSCH resources provided in rach-ConfigDedicated if configured;
2>	if any DAPS bearer is configured, and radio link failure is not detected in the source PCell, according to clause 5.3.10.3:
3>	reset MAC for the target PCell and release the MAC configuration for the target PCell;
3>	for each DAPS bearer:
4>	release the RLC entity or entities as specified in TS 38.322 [4], clause 5.1.3, and the associated logical channel for the target PCell;
4>	reconfigure the PDCP entity to release DAPS as specified in TS 38.323 [5];
3>	for each SRB:
4>	if the masterKeyUpdate was not received:
5>	configure the PDCP entity for the source PCell with state variables continuation as specified in TS 38.323 [5];
4>	release the PDCP entity for the target PCell;
4>	release the RLC entity as specified in TS 38.322 [4], clause 5.1.3, and the associated logical channel for the target PCell;
4>	trigger the PDCP entity for the source PCell to perform SDU discard as specified in TS 38.323 [5];
4>	re-establish the RLC entity for the source PCell;
3>	release the physical channel configuration for the target PCell;
3>	discard the keys used in target PCell (the KgNB key, the KRRCenc key, the KRRCint key, the KUPint key and the KUPenc key), if any;
3>	resume suspended SRBs in the source PCell;
3>	for each non-DAPS bearer:
4>	revert back to the UE configuration used for the DRB or multicast MRB in the source PCell, includes PDCP, RLC states variables, the security configuration and the data stored in transmission and reception buffers in PDCP and RLC entities ;
3>	revert back to the UE measurement configuration used in the source PCell;
3>	store the handover failure information in VarRLF-Report as described in the clause 5.3.10.5;
3>	initiate the failure information procedure as specified in clause 5.7.5 to report DAPS handover failure.
2>	else:
3>	if attemptLTM-Switch is configured and the T304 of the MCG expiry is caused by an LTM cell switch execution triggered by an indication from lower layers as described in 5.3.5.18.6:
4>	revert back to the UE configuration used in the source PCell except for the PDCP state variables for SRB(s) associated to the MCG;
3>	else:
4>	revert back to the UE configuration used in the source PCell;
3>	if the associated T304 was not initiated upon cell selection performed while timer T311 was running, as defined in clause 5.3.7.3:
4>	store the handover failure information in VarRLF-Report as described in the clause 5.3.10.5;
3>	initiate the connection re-establishment procedure as specified in clause 5.3.7.
NOTE 1:	In the context above, "the UE configuration" includes state variables and parameters of each radio bearer.
1>	else if T304 of a secondary cell group expires:
2>	if MCG transmission is not suspended:
3>	release dedicated preambles provided in rach-ConfigDedicated, if configured;
3>	release dedicated msgA PUSCH resources provided in rach-ConfigDedicated, if configured;
3>	initiate the SCG failure information procedure as specified in clause 5.7.3 to report SCG reconfiguration with sync failure, upon which the RRC reconfiguration procedure ends;
2>	else:
3>	if the UE is in NR-DC:
4>	initiate the connection re-establishment procedure as specified in clause 5.3.7;
3>	else (the UE is in (NG) EN-DC):
4>	initiate the connection re-establishment procedure as specified in TS 36.331 [10], clause 5.3.7;
1>	else if T304 expires when RRCReconfiguration is received via other RAT (HO to NR failure):
2>	reset MAC;
2>	perform the actions defined for this failure case as defined in the specifications applicable for the other RAT.
NOTE 2:	In this clause, the term 'handover failure' has been used to refer to 'reconfiguration with sync failure'.
5.3.5.9	Other configuration
The UE shall:
1>	if the received otherConfig includes the delayBudgetReportingConfig:
2>	if delayBudgetReportingConfig is set to setup:
3>	consider itself to be configured to send delay budget reports in accordance with 5.7.4;
2>	else:
3>	consider itself not to be configured to send delay budget reports and stop timer T342, if running.
1>	if the received otherConfig includes the overheatingAssistanceConfig:
2>	if overheatingAssistanceConfig is set to setup:
3>	consider itself to be configured to provide overheating assistance information in accordance with 5.7.4;
2>	else:
3>	consider itself not to be configured to provide overheating assistance information and stop timer T345, if running;
1>	if the received otherConfig includes the idc-AssistanceConfig:
2>	if idc-AssistanceConfig is set to setup:
3>	consider itself to be configured to provide IDC assistance information in accordance with 5.7.4;
2>	else:
3>	consider itself not to be configured to provide IDC assistance information;
1>	if the received otherConfig includes the drx-PreferenceConfig:
2>	if drx-PreferenceConfig is set to setup:
3>	consider itself to be configured to provide its preference on DRX parameters for power saving for the cell group in accordance with 5.7.4;
2>	else:
3>	consider itself not to be configured to provide its preference on DRX parameters for power saving for the cell group and stop timer T346a associated with the cell group, if running;
1>	if the received otherConfig includes the maxBW-PreferenceConfig:
2>	if maxBW-PreferenceConfig is set to setup:
3>	consider itself to be configured to provide its preference on the maximum aggregated bandwidth for power saving for the cell group in accordance with 5.7.4;
3>	if otherConfig includes maxBW-PreferenceConfigFR2-2:
4>	consider itself to be configured to provide its preference on the maximum aggregated bandwidth for FR2-2 for power saving for the cell group in accordance with 5.7.4;
2>	else:
3>	consider itself not to be configured to provide its preference on the maximum aggregated bandwidth for power saving for the cell group and stop timer T346b associated with the cell group, if running;
1>	if the received otherConfig includes the maxCC-PreferenceConfig:
2>	if maxCC-PreferenceConfig is set to setup:
3>	consider itself to be configured to provide its preference on the maximum number of secondary component carriers for power saving for the cell group in accordance with 5.7.4;
2>	else:
3>	consider itself not to be configured to provide its preference on the maximum number of secondary component carriers for power saving for the cell group and stop timer T346c associated with the cell group, if running;
1>	if the received otherConfig includes the maxMIMO-LayerPreferenceConfig:
2>	if maxMIMO-LayerPreferenceConfig is set to setup:
3>	consider itself to be configured to provide its preference on the maximum number of MIMO layers for power saving for the cell group in accordance with 5.7.4;
3>	if otherConfig includes maxMIMO-LayerPreferenceConfigFR2-2:
4>	consider itself to be configured to provide its preference on the maximum number of MIMO layers for FR2-2 for power saving for the cell group in accordance with 5.7.4;
2>	else:
3>	consider itself not to be configured to provide its preference on the maximum number of MIMO layers for power saving for the cell group and stop timer T346d associated with the cell group, if running;
1>	if the received otherConfig includes the minSchedulingOffsetPreferenceConfig:
2>	if minSchedulingOffsetPreferenceConfig is set to setup:
3>	consider itself to be configured to provide its preference on the minimum scheduling offset for cross-slot scheduling for power saving for the cell group in accordance with 5.7.4;
3>	if otherConfig includes minSchedulingOffsetPreferenceConfigExt:
4>	consider itself to be configured to provide its preference on the minimum scheduling offset for 480 kHz SCS and/or 960 kHz SCS for cross-slot scheduling for power saving for the cell group in accordance with 5.7.4;
2>	else:
3>	consider itself not to be configured to provide its preference on the minimum scheduling offset for cross-slot scheduling for power saving for the cell group and stop timer T346e associated with the cell group, if running;
1>	if the received otherConfig includes the releasePreferenceConfig:
2>	if releasePreferenceConfig is set to setup:
3>	consider itself to be configured to provide assistance information to transition out of RRC_CONNECTED in accordance with 5.7.4;
2>	else:
3>	consider itself not to be configured to provide assistance information to transition out of RRC_CONNECTED and stop timer T346f, if running.
1>	if the received otherConfig includes the obtainCommonLocation:
2>	include available detailed location information for any subsequent measurement report or any subsequent RLF report, SCGFailureInformation, successful handover report, and successful PSCell change or addition report (if received for the associated cell group);
NOTE 1:	The UE is requested to attempt to have valid detailed location information available whenever sending a measurement report for which it is configured to include available detailed location information. The UE may not succeed e.g. because the user manually disabled the GPS hardware, due to no/poor satellite coverage. Further details, e.g. regarding when to activate GNSS, are up to UE implementation.
1>	if the received otherConfig includes the btNameList:
2>	if btNameList is set to setup, include available Bluetooth measurement results for any subsequent measurement report or any subsequent RLF report and SCGFailureInformation;
1>	if the received otherConfig includes the wlanNameList:
2>	if wlanNameList is set to setup, include available WLAN measurement results for any subsequent measurement report or any subsequent RLF report and SCGFailureInformation;
1>	if the received otherConfig includes the sensorNameList:
2>	if sensorNameList is set to setup, include available Sensor measurement results for any subsequent measurement report or any subsequent RLF report and SCGFailureInformation;
NOTE 2:	The UE is requested to attempt to have valid Bluetooth measurements, WLAN measurements and Sensor measurements whenever sending a measurement report for which it is configured to include these measurements. The UE may not succeed e.g. because the user manually disabled the WLAN or Bluetooth or Sensor hardware. Further details, e.g. regarding when to activate WLAN or Bluetooth or Sensor, are up to UE implementation.
1>	if the received otherConfig includes the sl-AssistanceConfigNR:
2>	consider itself to be configured to provide configured grant assistance information for NR sidelink communication in accordance with 5.7.4;
1>	if the received otherConfig includes the referenceTimePreferenceReporting:
2>	consider itself to be configured to provide UE reference time assistance information in accordance with 5.7.4;
1>	else:
2>	consider itself not to be configured to provide UE reference time assistance information;
1>	if successHO-Config is set to setup:
2>	consider itself to be configured to provide the successful handover information in accordance with 5.7.10.6;
1>	else:
2>	consider itself not to be configured to provide the successful handover information.
1>	if sn-initiatedPSCellChange is not included in the received otherConfig and if the successPSCell-Config in the received otherConfig is set to setup:
2>	consider itself to be configured by the corresponding cell group to provide the successful PSCell change or addition information in accordance with 5.7.10.7;
1>	else:
2>	consider itself not to be configured by the corresponding cell group to provide the successful PSCell change or addition information.
1>	if sn-initiatedPSCellChange is included in the received otherConfig and if the received otherConfig includes successPSCell-Config set to setup and thresholdPercentageT304-SCG is not included; or
1>	if sn-initiatedPSCellChange is included in received otherConfig and successPSCell-Config is already configured for the SCG:
2>	consider itself to be configured by the source PSCell to provide the successful PSCell change or addition information in accordance with 5.7.10.7;
1>	if successPSCell-Config in the received otherConfig is set to setup and thresholdPercentageT304-SCG is included:
2>	consider itself to be configured by the target PSCell to provide the successful PSCell change or addition information in accordance with 5.7.10.7
1>	if the successPSCell-Config received in otherConfig is set to release:
2>	consider itself not to be configured by the corresponding cell group to provide the successful PSCell change or addition information.
1>	if the received otherConfig includes the ul-GapFR2-PreferenceConfig:
2>	consider itself to be configured to provide its preference on FR2 UL gap in accordance with 5.7.4;
1>	else:
2>	consider itself not to be configured to provide its preference on FR2 UL gap;
1>	if the received otherConfig includes the musim-GapAssistanceConfig:
2>	if musim-GapAssistanceConfig is set to setup:
3>	consider itself to be configured to provide MUSIM assistance information for gap preference in accordance with 5.7.4;
2>	else:
3>	consider itself not to be configured to provide MUSIM assistance information for gap preference and stop timer T346h, if running;
1>	if the received otherConfig includes the musim-LeaveAssistanceConfig:
2>	if musim-LeaveAssistanceConfig is set to setup:
3>	consider itself to be configured to provide MUSIM assistance information for leaving RRC_CONNECTED in accordance with 5.7.4;
2>	else:
3>	consider itself not to be configured to provide MUSIM assistance information for leaving RRC_CONNECTED and stop timer T346g, if running.
1>	if the received otherConfig includes the musim-GapPriorityAssistanceConfig:
2>	consider itself to be configured to provide MUSIM assistance information for gap(s) priority in accordance with 5.7.4;
1>	else:
2>	consider itself not to be configured to provide MUSIM assistance information for gap(s) priority;
1>	if the received otherConfig includes the musim-CapabilityRestrictionConfig:
2>	if musim-CapabilityRestrictionConfig is set to setup:
3>	consider itself to be configured to provide MUSIM assistance information for capability restriction in accordance with 5.7.4;
2>	else:
3>	consider itself not to be configured to provide MUSIM assistance information for capability restriction and stop timer T348 and T346n, if running;
1>	if the received otherConfig includes the rlm-RelaxationReportingConfig:
2>	if rlm-RelaxationReportingConfig is set to setup:
3>	consider itself to be configured to report the relaxation state of RLM measurements in accordance with 5.7.4;
2>	else:
3>	consider itself not to be configured to report the relaxation state of RLM measurements and stop timer T346j associated with the cell group, if running;
1>	if the received otherConfig includes the bfd-RelaxationReportingConfig:
2>	if bfd-RelaxationReportingConfig is set to setup:
3>	consider itself to be configured to report the relaxation state of BFD measurements in accordance with 5.7.4;
2>	else:
3>	consider itself not to be configured to report the relaxation state of BFD measurements and stop timer T346k associated with the cell group, if running;
1>	if the received otherConfig includes the scg-DeactivationPreferenceConfig:
2>	if the scg-DeactivationPreferenceConfig is set to setup:
3>	consider itself to be configured to provide its SCG deactivation preference in accordance with 5.7.4;
2>	else:
3>	consider itself not to be configured to provide its SCG deactivation preference and stop timer T346i, if running.
1>	if the received otherConfig includes the propDelayDiffReportConfig:
2>	if the propDelayDiffReportConfig is set to setup:
3>	consider itself to be configured to provide service link propagation delay difference between serving cell and neighbour cell(s) in accordance with 5.7.4;
2>	else:
3>	consider itself not to be configured to provide service link propagation delay difference between serving cell and neighbour cell(s).
1>	if the received otherConfig includes the rrm-MeasRelaxationReportingConfig:
2>	if the rrm-MeasRelaxationReportingConfig is set to setup:
3>	consider itself to be configured to report the fulfilment of the criterion for relaxing RRM measurements in accordance with 5.7.4;
2>	else:
3>	consider itself not to be configured to report the fulfilment of the criterion for relaxing RRM measurements.
1>	if the received otherConfig includes the multiRx-PreferenceReportingConfigFR2:
2>	if the multiRx-PreferenceReportingConfigFR2 is set to setup:
3>	consider itself to be configured to provide its preference on multi-Rx operation for FR2 in accordance with 5.7.4;
2>	else:
3>	consider itself not to be configured to provide its preference on multi-Rx operation for FR2 and stop timer T346m, if running.
1>	if the received otherConfig includes the aerial-FlightPathAvailabilityConfig:
2>	consider itself to be configured to indicate the availability of flight path information in accordance with 5.7.4;
1>	if the received otherConfig includes the ul-TrafficInfoReportingConfig:
2>	if ul-TrafficInfoReportingConfig is set to setup:
3>	consider itself to be configured to provide UL traffic information in accordance with 5.7.4;
2>	else:
3>	consider itself not to be configured to provide UL traffic information and stop all instances of timer T346l, if running;
1>	if the received otherConfig includes n3c-RelayUE-InfoReportConfig:
2>	consider itself to be configured to report relay UE information with non-3GPP connection(s).
5.3.5.9a	MUSIM gap configuration
The UE shall:
1>	if musim-GapConfig is set to setup:
2>	for each musim-GapId included in the received musim-GapToReleaseList:
3>	release the periodic MUSIM gap configuration associated with the musim-GapId;
2>	for each MUSIM-Gap included in the received musim-GapToAddModList:
3>	setup periodic MUSIM gap configuration indicated by the MUSIM-Gap in accordance with the received musim-GapRepetitionAndOffset (providing musim-GapRepetition and Offset value for the following condition) i.e. the first subframe of each periodic MUSIM gap occurs at an SFN and subframe of the NR PCell meeting the following condition:
SFN mod T = FLOOR(Offset/10);
subframe = Offset mod 10;
with T = musim-GapRepetition/10;
3>	set the MUSIM gap priority configuration indicated by musim-GapToAddModListExt, if configured, for each periodic MUSIM gap;
NOTE:	If network does not configure the relative priorities among MUSIM gaps as indicated by the UE, UE behaviour is not specified.
2>	if musim-AperiodicGap is included:
3>	setup aperiodic MUSIM gap configuration indicated by the musim-AperiodicGap in accordance with the received musim-Starting-SFN-AndSubframe, i.e. the first subframe of aperiodic MUSIM gap occurs at an SFN and subframe of the NR PCell meeting the following condition:
SFN = starting-SFN;
subframe = startingSubframe;
2>	keep all colliding MUSIM gaps as specified in TS 38.133 [14], if musim-GapKeep is configured;
1>	else if musim-GapConfig is set to release:
2>	release the MUSIM gap configuration.
5.3.5.10	MR-DC release
The UE shall:
1>	as a result of MR-DC release triggered by E-UTRA or NR:
2>	release SRB3, if established, as specified in 5.3.5.6.2;
2>	release SRB5, if established, as specified in 5.3.5.6.2;
2>	release measConfig associated with SCG;
2>	if the UE is configured with NR SCG:
3>	release the SCG configuration as specified in clause 5.3.5.4;
3>	if this procedure is initiated due to the reception of mrdc-ReleaseAndAdd:
4> release otherConfig associated with the SCG except the successPSCell-Config configured by the source PSCell, if configured;
3>	else:
4>	release otherConfig associated with the SCG, if configured;
4>	release successPSCell-Config configured by the PCell in the otherConfig, if configured;
3>	stop timers T346a, T346b, T346c, T346d, T346e, T346j and T346k associated with the SCG, if running;
3>	release bap-Config associated with the SCG, if configured;
3>	release the BAP entity as specified in TS 38.340 [47], if there is no configured bap-Config;
3>	release iab-IP-AddressConfigurationList associated with the SCG, if configured;
3>	perform the LTM configuration release procedure for the SCG as specified in clause 5.3.5.18.7;
2>	else if the UE is configured with E-UTRA SCG:
3>	release the SCG configuration as specified in TS 36.331 [10], clause 5.3.10.19 to release the E-UTRA SCG;
5.3.5.11	Full configuration
The UE shall:
1>	release/ clear all current dedicated radio configurations except for the following:
-	the MCG C-RNTI;
-	the AS security configurations associated with the master key;
-	the SRB1/SRB2 configurations and DRB/multicast MRB configurations as configured by radioBearerConfig or radioBearerConfig2.
NOTE 1:	Radio configuration is not just the resource configuration but includes other configurations like MeasConfig. Radio configuration also includes the RLC bearer configurations as configured by RLC-BearerConfig, PC5 Relay RLC channel as configured by SL-RLC-ChannelConfig, and Uu Relay RLC channel as configured by Uu-RelayRLC-ChannelConfig. In case NR-DC or NE-DC is configured, this also includes the entire NR or E-UTRA SCG configuration which are released according to the MR-DC release procedure as specified in 5.3.5.10.
NOTE 1a:	For NR sidelink communication/discovery, the radio configuration includes the sidelink RRC configuration received from the network, but does not include the sidelink RRC reconfiguration and sidelink UE capability received from other UEs via PC5-RRC. In addition, the UE considers the new NR sidelink configurations as full configuration, in case of state transition and change of system information used for NR sidelink communication/discovery.
NOTE 1b:	To establish the RLC bearer of SRB(s) after release due to fullConfig, the network can include the srb-Identity within srb-ToAddModList (i.e. the UE applies RLC default configuration) and/or provide rlc-BearerToAddModList of concerned SRB(s) explicitly.
-	the logged measurement configuration;
-	the successHO-Config;
-	the successPSCell-Config.
1>	if the spCellConfig in the masterCellGroup includes the reconfigurationWithSync:
2>	release/ clear all current common radio configurations;
2>	if sl-PathSwitchConfig was included in reconfigurationWithSync:
3>	use the default values specified in 9.2.3 for timer T311;
2>	else:
3>	use the default values specified in 9.2.3 for timers T310, T311 and constants N310, N311;
1>	else (full configuration after re-establishment or during RRC resume):
2>	if the UE is acting as L2 U2N Remote UE:
3>	use value for timer T311, as included in ue-TimersAndConstants received in SIB1
2>	else:
3>	use values for timers T301, T310, T311 and constants N310, N311, as included in ue-TimersAndConstants received in SIB1;
1>	if no measConfigAppLayerId is included:
2>	inform upper layers about the release of all application layer measurement configurations;
2>	release all application layer measurement configurations including their fields in the UE variables VarAppLayerIdleConfig and VarAppLayerPLMN-ListConfig, if stored;
2>	discard any received application layer measurement reports from upper layers;
2>	consider itself not to be configured to send application layer measurement reports;
1>	if the UE is acting as L2 U2N Remote UE at the target side during reconfiguration with sync, or after re-establishment, or during RRC resume:
2>	apply the default configuration of SL-RLC1 as specified in clause 9.2.4 and associate it with the SRB1;
1>	else:
2>	apply the default L1 parameter values as specified in corresponding physical layer specifications except for the following:
-	parameters for which values are provided in SIB1;
2>	apply the default MAC Cell Group configuration as specified in 9.2.2;
2>	for each srb-Identity value included in the srb-ToAddModList (SRB reconfiguration):
3>	establish an RLC entity for the corresponding SRB;
3>	apply the default SRB configuration defined in 9.2.1 for the corresponding SRB;
NOTE 2:	This is to get the SRBs (SRB1 and SRB2 for reconfiguration with sync and SRB2 for resume and reconfiguration after re-establishment) to a known state from which the reconfiguration message can do further configuration.
1>	for each pdu-Session that is part of the current UE configuration:
2>	release the SDAP entity (clause 5.1.2 in TS 37.324 [24]);
2>	release each DRB associated to the pdu-Session as specified in 5.3.5.6.4;
NOTE 3:	This will retain the pdu-Session but remove the DRBs including drb-identity of these bearers from the current UE configuration. Setup of the DRBs within the AS is described in clause 5.3.5.6.5 using the new configuration. The pdu-Session acts as the anchor for associating the released and re-setup DRB. In the AS the DRB re-setup is equivalent with a new DRB setup (including new PDCP and logical channel configurations).
1>	for each mbs-SessionId that is part of the current UE configuration and associated to a multicast MRB:
2>	release the SDAP entity (clause 5.1.2 in TS 37.324 [24]);
2>	release each multicast MRB associated to the mbs-SessionId as specified in 5.3.5.6.6;
NOTE 4:	This will retain the mbs-SessionId but remove the multicast MRBs including mrb-identity of these bearers from the current UE configuration. Setup of the multicast MRBs within the AS is described in clause 5.3.5.6.7 using the new configuration. The mbs-SessionId acts as the anchor for associating the released and re-setup multicast MRB. In the AS the multicast MRB re-setup is equivalent with a new multicast MRB setup (including new PDCP and logical channel configurations).
1>	for each pdu-Session that is part of the current UE configuration but not added with same pdu-Session in the drb-ToAddModList:
2>	if the procedure was triggered due to reconfiguration with sync:
3>	indicate the release of the user plane resources for the pdu-Session to upper layers after successful reconfiguration with sync;
2>	else:
3>	indicate the release of the user plane resources for the pdu-Session to upper layers immediately;
1>	for each mbs-SessionId that is part of the current UE configuration but not added with the same mbs-SessionId in the mrb-ToAddModList:
2>	if the procedure was triggered due to reconfiguration with sync:
3>	indicate the release of the user plane resources for the mbs-SessionId to upper layers after successful reconfiguration with sync;
2>	else:
3>	indicate the release of the user plane resources for the mbs-SessionId to upper layers immediately.
5.3.5.12	BAP configuration
The IAB-MT shall:
1>	if the bap-Config is set to setup:
2>	if no BAP entity is established:
3>	establish a BAP entity as specified in TS 38.340 [47];
2>	if bap-Address is included:
3>	configure the BAP entity to use the bap-Address as this node's BAP address;
2>	if defaultUL-BAP-RoutingID is included:
3>	configure the BAP entity to apply the default UL BAP routing ID according to the configuration;
2>	if defaultUL-BH-RLC-Channel is included
3>	configure the BAP entity to apply the default UL BH RLC channel according to the configuration;
2>	if flowControlFeedbackType is included:
3>	configure the BAP entity to apply the flow control feedback according to the configuration;
1>	if the bap-Config is set to release:
2>	release the concerned bap-Config;
2>	if there is no other configured bap-Config for the MCG or for the SCG
3>	release the BAP entity as specified in TS 38.340 [47].
5.3.5.12a	IAB Other Configuration
5.3.5.12a.1	IP address management
5.3.5.12a.1.1	IP Address Release
The IAB-MT shall:
1>	if the release is triggered by reception of the iab-IP-AddressToReleaseList:
2>	for each iab-IP-AddressIndex value included in iab-IP-AddressToReleaseList:
3>	release the corresponding IAB-IP-AddressConfiguration.
5.3.5.12a.1.2	IP Address Addition/Modification
The IAB-MT shall:
1>	for each iab-IP-AddressIndex value included in the iab-IP-AddressToAddModList that is not part of the current IAB-MT configuration:
2>	add the IP address indicated in iab-IP-Address, corresponding to the iab-IP-AddressIndex.
2>	if added IP address is iPv4-Address:
3>	if iab-IP-Usage is set to f1-C:
4>	store the received IPv4 address for F1-C traffic together with the IAB-donor-DU BAP address corresponding to the iab-IP-AddressIndex.
3>	else if iab-IP-Usage is set to f1-U:
4>	store the received IPv4 address for F1-U traffic together with the IAB-donor-DU BAP address corresponding to the iab-IP-AddressIndex.
3>	else if iab-IP-Usage is set to non-F1:
4>	store the received IPv4 address for non-F1 traffic together with the IAB-donor-DU BAP address corresponding to the iab-IP-AddressIndex.
3>	else:
4>	store the received IPv4 address for all traffic together with the IAB-donor-DU BAP address corresponding to the iab-IP-AddressIndex.
2>	else if iPv6-Address is included:
3>	if iab-IP-Usage is set to f1-C:
4>	store the received IPv6 address for F1-C traffic together with the IAB-donor-DU BAP address corresponding to the iab-IP-AddressIndex.
3>	else if iab-IP-Usage is set to f1-U:
4>	store the received IPv6 address for F1-U traffic together with the IAB-donor-DU BAP address corresponding to the iab-IP-AddressIndex.
3>	else if iab-IP-Usage is set to non-F1:
4>	store the received IPv6 address for non-F1 traffic together with the IAB-donor-DU BAP address corresponding to the iab-IP-AddressIndex.
3>	else:
4>	store the received IPv6 address for all traffic together with the IAB-donor-DU BAP address corresponding to the iab-IP-AddressIndex.
2>	else if iPv6-Prefix is included in iab-IP-AddressToAddModList:
3>	if iab-IP-Usage is set to f1-C:
4>	store the received IPv6 address prefix for F1-C traffic together with the IAB-donor-DU BAP address corresponding to the iab-IP-AddressIndex.
3>	else if iab-IP-Usage is set to f1-U:
4>	store the received IPv6 address prefix for F1-U traffic together with the IAB-donor-DU BAP address corresponding to the iab-IP-AddressIndex.
3>	else if iab-IP-Usage is set to non-F1:
4>	store the received IPv6 address prefix for non-F1 traffic together with the IAB-donor-DU BAP address corresponding to the iab-IP-AddressIndex.
3>	else:
4>	store the received IPv6 address prefix for all traffic together with the IAB-donor-DU BAP address corresponding to the iab-IP-AddressIndex.
1>	for each iab-IP-AddressIndex value included in the iab-IP-AddressToAddModList that is part of the current IAB-MT configuration:
2>	modify the IP address configuration(s) in accordance with the IAB-IP-AddressConfiguration corresponding to the iab-IP-AddressIndex.
5.3.5.13	Conditional Reconfiguration
5.3.5.13.1	General
The network configures the UE with one or more candidate target SpCells in the conditional reconfiguration. The UE evaluates the condition of each configured candidate target SpCell. The UE applies the conditional reconfiguration associated with one of the target SpCells which fulfils associated execution condition.
The network can also configure the UE with one or more candidate target PCells associated with one or more candidate target PSCells. The UE evaluates the conditions for the candidate target PCells and the associated candidate target PSCells in parallel and applies a target configuration that include PCell and PSCell for which the associated execution conditions are fulfilled. If there are multiple candidate PSCells associated with one candidate target PCell, the network provides multiple conditional configurations for the same candidate target PCell, i.e., each configuration contains one MCG configuration (for the same candidate target PCell) and one SCG configuration (for one of the multiple associated candidate PSCells). For this case, the network may also provide a complementary CHO only configuration, i.e., there is execution condition only for candidate PCell.
The network provides the configuration parameters for the target SpCell(s) in the condRRCReconfig.
In NR-DC, the UE may receive two independent conditionalReconfiguration:
-	a conditionalReconfiguration associated with MCG, that is included in the RRCReconfiguration message received via SRB1; and
-	a conditionalReconfiguration, associated with SCG, that is included in the RRCReconfiguration message received via SRB3, or, alternatively, included within a RRCReconfiguration message embedded in a RRCReconfiguration message received via SRB1.
In this case:
-	the UE maintains two independent VarConditionalReconfig, one associated with each conditionalReconfiguration;
-	the UE independently performs all the procedures in clause 5.3.5.13 for each conditionalReconfiguration and the associated VarConditionalReconfig, unless explicitly stated otherwise;
-	the UE performs the procedures in clause 5.5 for the VarConditionalReconfig associated with the same cell group like the measConfig.
In EN-DC, the VarConditionalReconfig is associated with the SCG.
In NE-DC and when no SCG is configured, the VarConditionalReconfig is associated with the MCG.
The UE performs the following actions based on a received ConditionalReconfiguration IE:
1>	if the ConditionalReconfiguration contains the condReconfigToRemoveList:
2>	perform conditional reconfiguration removal procedure as specified in 5.3.5.13.2;
1>	if the ConditionalReconfiguration contains the condReconfigToAddModList:
2>	perform conditional reconfiguration addition/modification as specified in 5.3.5.13.3;
1>	if the ConditionalReconfiguration contains the scpac-ReferenceConfiguration:
2>	perform subsequent CPAC reference configuration addition/removal as specified in 5.3.5.13.6;
1>	if the ConditionalReconfiguration contains the sk-CounterConfiguration:
2>	perform sk-CounterList addition/modification/removal as specified in 5.3.5.13.7;
1>	if the ConditionalReconfiguration contains the servingSecurityCellSetId:
2>	if the current VarServingSecurityCellSetID includes servingSecurityCellSetId:
3>	replace the servingSecurityCellSetId value within VarServingSecurityCellSetID with the received servingSecurityCellSetID;
2>	else:
3>	store the received servingSecurityCellSetId within VarServingSecurityCellSetID.
5.3.5.13.2	Conditional reconfiguration removal
The UE shall:
1>	for each condReconfigId value included in the condReconfigToRemoveList that is part of the current UE conditional reconfiguration in VarConditionalReconfig:
2>	remove the entry with the matching condReconfigId from the VarConditionalReconfig;
NOTE 1:	The UE does not consider the message as erroneous if the condReconfigToRemoveList includes any condReconfigId value that is not part of the current UE configuration.
NOTE 2:	Void.
5.3.5.13.3	Conditional reconfiguration addition/modification
For each condReconfigId received in the condReconfigToAddModList IE the UE shall:
1>	if an entry with the matching condReconfigId exists in the condReconfigToAddModList within the VarConditionalReconfig:
2>	if the entry in condReconfigToAddModList includes an condExecutionCond, condExecutionCondSCG, or condExecutionCondPSCell;
3>	replace condExecutionCond, condExecutionCondSCG, or condExecutionCondPSCell within the VarConditionalReconfig with the value received for this condReconfigId;
2>	if the entry in condReconfigToAddModList includes subsequentCondReconfig containing condExecutionCondToAddModList:
3>	for each condReconfigId received in condExecutionCondToAddModList:
4>	if an entry with the matching condReconfigId exists in the condExecutionCondToAddModList within VarConditionalReconfig;
5>	replace the entry in condExecutionCondToAddModList within VarConditionalReconfig with the value received for this condReconfigId;
4>	else:
5>	add a new entry in condExecutionCondToAddModList within VarConditionalReconfig with the value received for this condReconfigId;
2>	if the entry in condReconfigToAddModList includes subsequentCondReconfig containing condExecutionCondToReleaseList:
3>	for each condReconfigId received in condExecutionCondToReleaseList that is part of current stored condExecutionCondToAddModList within VarConditionalReconfig:
4>	remove the entry in condExecutionCondToAddModList within VarConditionalReconfig with the value received for this condReconfigId;
NOTE 1:	The UE does not consider the message as erroneous if the condExecutionCondToReleaseList includes any condReconfigId value that is not part of the current UE configuration.
2>	if the entry in condReconfigToAddModList includes a securityCellSetId;
3>	replace securityCellSetId within the VarConditionalReconfig with the value received for this condReconfigId;
NOTE 2:	The UE should release the entry within VarServingSecurityCellSetID in case all the subsequent CPAC configurations are released.
2>	if the entry in condReconfigToAddModList includes a condRRCReconfig;
3>	replace condRRCReconfig within the VarConditionalReconfig with the value received for this condReconfigId;
1>	else:
2>	add a new entry for this condReconfigId within the VarConditionalReconfig;
1>	perform conditional reconfiguration evaluation as specified in 5.3.5.13.4;
5.3.5.13.4	Conditional reconfiguration evaluation
The UE shall:
1>	for each condReconfigId within the VarConditionalReconfig:
2>	if the RRCReconfiguration within condRRCReconfig includes the masterCellGroup including the reconfigurationWithSync:
3>	if the associated condExecutionCondPSCell is configured:
4>	consider the cell which has a physical cell identity matching the value indicated in the ServingCellConfigCommon included in the reconfigurationWithSync within the masterCellGroup in the received condRRCReconfig to be applicable cell; and
4> consider the cell which has a physical cell identity matching the value indicated in the ServingCellConfigCommon included in the reconfigurationWithSync within the secondaryCellGroup within the nr-SCG within the received condRRCReconfig to be applicable cell;
3>	else:
4>	consider the cell which has a physical cell identity matching the value indicated in the ServingCellConfigCommon included in the reconfigurationWithSync within the masterCellGroup in the received condRRCReconfig to be applicable cell;
2>	else if the RRCReconfiguration within condRRCReconfig includes the secondaryCellGroup including the reconfigurationWithSync:
3>	if the cell which has a physical cell identity matching the value indicated in the ServingCellConfigCommon included in the reconfigurationWithSync within the secondaryCellGroup within the received condRRCReconfig is not the PSCell:
4>	if subsequentCondReconfig is not included for the condReconfigId; or
4>	if subsequentCondReconfig is not included for the PSCell; or
4>	if subsequentCondReconfig is included for the condReconfigId and there is a subsequentCondReconfig for the PSCell with a matching condReconfigId value in condExecutionCondToAddModList:
5>	consider the cell to be applicable cell;
2>	if condExecutionCondSCG is configured:
3>	in the remainder of the procedure, consider each measId indicated in the condExecutionCondSCG as a measId in the VarMeasConfig associated with the SCG measConfig;
2>	if the condExecutionCondPSCell is configured:
3>	in the remainder of the procedure, consider each measId indicated in the condExecutionCondPSCell as a measId in the VarMeasConfig associated with the MCG measConfig;
2>	if condExecutionCond is configured:
3>	if it is configured via SRB3 or configured within nr-SCG or within nr-SecondaryCellGroupConfig (specified in TS 36.331[10]) via SRB1:
4>	in the remainder of the procedure, consider each measId indicated in the condExecutionCond as a measId in the VarMeasConfig associated with the SCG measConfig;
3>	else:
4>	in the remainder of the procedure, consider each measId indicated in the condExecutionCond as a measId in the VarMeasConfig associated with the MCG measConfig;
2>	for each measId included in the measIdList within VarMeasConfig indicated in the condExecutionCond, condExecutionCondSCG, or condExecutionCondPSCell of the condReconfigId:
3>	if condExecutionCond, condExecutionCondSCG, and subsequentCondReconfig are included for the condReconfigId:
4>	ignore the measId(s) in the condExecutionCond of the condReconfigId;
3>	if the condTriggerConfig is not configured with nesEvent:
4>	if the condEventId is associated with condEventT1, and if the entry condition applicable for this event associated with the condReconfigId, i.e. the event corresponding with the condEventId(s) of the corresponding condTriggerConfig within VarConditionalReconfig, is fulfilled for the applicable cell; or
4> if the condEventId is associated with condEventD1 or condEventD2, and if the entry conditions applicable for this event associated with the condReconfigId, i.e. the event corresponding with the condEventId(s) of the corresponding condTriggerConfig within VarConditionalReconfig, is fulfilled for the applicable cell during the corresponding timeToTrigger defined for this event within the VarConditionalReconfig; or
4>	if the condEventId is associated with condEventA3, condEventA4 or condEventA5, and if the entry condition(s) applicable for this event associated with the condReconfigId, i.e. the event corresponding with the condEventId(s) of the corresponding condTriggerConfig within VarConditionalReconfig, is fulfilled for the applicable cells for all measurements after layer 3 filtering taken during the corresponding timeToTrigger defined for this event within the VarConditionalReconfig:
5>	consider the event associated to that measId to be fulfilled;
4>	if the measId for this event associated with the condReconfigId has been modified; or
4>	if the condEventId is associated with condEventT1, and if the leaving condition applicable for this event associated with the condReconfigId, i.e. the event corresponding with the condEventId(s) of the corresponding condTriggerConfig within VarConditionalReconfig, is fulfilled for the applicable cell; or
4>if the condEventId is associated with condEventD1 or condEventD2, and if the leaving condition(s) applicable for this event associated with the condReconfigId, i.e. the event corresponding with the condEventId(s) of the corresponding condTriggerConfig within VarConditionalReconfig, is fulfilled for the applicable cell during the corresponding timeToTrigger defined for this event within the VarConditionalReconfig; or
4>	if the condEventId is associated with condEventA3, condEventA4 or condEventA5, and if the leaving condition(s) applicable for this event associated with the condReconfigId, i.e. the event corresponding with the condEventId(s) of the corresponding condTriggerConfig within VarConditionalReconfig, is fulfilled for the applicable cells for all measurements after layer 3 filtering taken during the corresponding timeToTrigger defined for this event within the VarConditionalReconfig:
5>	consider the event associated to that measId to be not fulfilled;
3>	else:
4>	if NES mode indication is received from lower layers, indicating that the NES-specific CHO execution condition of the PCell is enabled; and
4>	if the entry condition(s) applicable for this event associated with the condReconfigId, i.e. the event corresponding with the condEventId(s) of the corresponding condTriggerConfig within VarConditionalReconfig, is fulfilled for the applicable cells for all measurements after layer 3 filtering taken during the corresponding timeToTrigger defined for this event within the VarConditionalReconfig:
5>	consider the event associated to that measId to be fulfilled;
4>	if the measId for this event associated with the condReconfigId has been modified; or
4>	if NES mode indication is received from lower layers, indicating that the NES-specific CHO execution condition of the PCell is disabled; or
4>	if the leaving condition(s) applicable for this event associated with the condReconfigId, i.e. the event corresponding with the condEventId(s) of the corresponding condTriggerConfig within VarConditionalReconfig, is fulfilled for the applicable cells for all measurements after layer 3 filtering taken during the corresponding timeToTrigger defined for this event within the VarConditionalReconfig:
5>	consider the event associated to that measId to be not fulfilled;
2>	if condExecutionCondPSCell is not configured:
3>	if event(s) associated to all measId(s) within condTriggerConfig for the applicable cell are fulfilled:
4>	consider the applicable cell, associated to that condReconfigId, as a triggered cell;
4>	initiate the conditional reconfiguration execution, as specified in 5.3.5.13.5;
2>	else:
3>	if event(s) associated to all measId(s), as indicated in the condExecutionCond and condExecutionCondPSCell, within condTriggerConfig for a target candidate cell within the stored condRRCReconfig are fulfilled:
4>	consider the target candidate PCell within the stored condRRCReconfig, associated to that condReconfigId, as a triggered PCell;
4>	consider the target candidate PSCell within the stored condRRCReconfig, associated to that condReconfigId, as a triggered PSCell;
4>	initiate the conditional reconfiguration execution, as specified in 5.3.5.13.5.
2>	if one of the events associated to the measIds within condTriggerConfig for the applicable cell within the stored condRRCReconfig is not configured with nesEvent, and the other event associated to the measIds within condTriggerConfig for the applicable cell within the stored condRRCReconfig is configured with nesEvent, and at least one of them is fulfilled:
3>	consider the applicable cell within the stored condRRCReconfig, associated to that condReconfigId, as a triggered cell;
3>	initiate the conditional reconfiguration execution, as specified in 5.3.5.13.5;
NOTE 1:	Up to 2 MeasId can be configured for each condReconfigId, if condExecutionCondPSCell is not configured. The conditional reconfiguration event of the 2 MeasId may have the same or different event conditions, triggering quantity, time to trigger, and triggering threshold.
NOTE 2:	Void.
NOTE 3:	For CHO with candidate SCG(s), up to 2 MeasId can be configured for condExecutionCond and up to 2 MeasId can be configured for condExecutionCondPSCell for each condReconfigId.
5.3.5.13.4a	Conditional reconfiguration evaluation of SN initiated inter-SN CPC for EN-DC
The UE shall:
1>	for each condReconfigurationId within the VarConditionalReconfiguration specified in TS 36.331[10]:
2>	for each measId included in the measIdList within VarMeasConfig indicated in the CondReconfigExecCondSCG contained in the triggerConditionSN associated to the condReconfigurationId as specified in TS 36.331[10]:
3>	if the entry condition(s) applicable for the event associated with that measId, is fulfilled for the applicable cells for all measurements after layer 3 filtering taken during the corresponding timeToTrigger defined for this event associated with that measId:
4>	consider this event to be fulfilled;
3>	if the measId for this event has been modified; or
3>	if the leaving condition(s) applicable for this event associated with that measId, is fulfilled for the applicable cells for all measurements after layer 3 filtering taken during the corresponding timeToTrigger defined for this event associated with that measId:
4>	consider this event associated to that measId to be not fulfilled;
2>	if trigger conditions for all events associated with the measId(s) indicated in the CondReconfigExecCondSCG contained in the triggerConditionSN as specified in TS 36.331[10]), are fulfilled:
3>	consider the target cell candidate within the RRCReconfiguration message contained in nr-SecondaryCellGroupConfig in the RRCConnectionReconfiguration message, as specified in TS 36.331[10], contained in the stored condReconfigurationToApply, associated to that condReconfigurationId as specified in TS 36.331[10]), clause 5.3.5.9.4, as a triggered cell;
3>	initiate the conditional reconfiguration execution, as specified in TS 36.331[10]), clause 5.3.5.9.5;
NOTE:	Void.
5.3.5.13.5	Conditional reconfiguration execution
The UE shall:
1>	if more than one pair of triggered PCell and associated triggered PSCell exist:
2>	select one of the triggered PCell(s) and the associated triggered PSCell(s) as the selected cells for conditional reconfiguration execution;
1>	else if only one pair of triggered PCell and associated triggered PSCell exists:
2>	consider the triggered PCell and the associated triggered PSCell as the selected cells for conditional reconfiguration execution;
1>	else if more than one triggered cell exists:
2>	select one of the triggered cells as the selected cell for conditional reconfiguration execution;
1>	else:
2>	consider the triggered cell as the selected cell for conditional reconfiguration execution;
1>	for the selected cell(s) of conditional reconfiguration execution:
2>	if the subsequentCondReconfig is included in the entry in VarConditionalReconfig containing the RRCReconfiguration message for the selected cell:
3>	perform the actions as specified in 5.3.5.13.8;
2>	else:
3>	apply the stored condRRCReconfig of the selected cell and perform the actions as specified in 5.3.5.3;
NOTE:	If multiple NR cells are triggered in conditional reconfiguration execution, it is up to UE implementation which one to select, e.g. the UE considers beams and beam quality to select one of the triggered cells for execution.
5.3.5.13.6	Subsequent CPAC reference configuration addition/removal
The UE shall:
1>	if the scpac-ReferenceConfiguration is set to setup:
2>	if scpac-ReferenceConfiguration exists within the VarConditionalReconfig:
3>	replace the scpac-ReferenceConfiguration within the VarConditionalReconfig;
2>	else:
3>	store the scpac-ReferenceConfiguration within the VarConditionalReconfig;
1>	else (if scpac-ReferenceConfiguration is set to release):
2>	remove the scpac-ReferenceConfiguration within the VarConditionalReconfig;
5.3.5.13.7	sk-Counter configuration addition/modification/removal
The UE shall:
1>	for each securityCellSetId received in the sk-CounterConfigToAddModList IE:
2>	if an entry with the matching securityCellSetId exists in the sk-CounterConfigToAddModList within the VarConditionalReconfig:
3>	replace the sk-CounterList within the VarConditionalReconfig with the sk-CounterList according to the received securityCellSetId;
2>	else:
3>	add a new entry for this securityCellSetId within the VarConditionalReconfig;
1>	for each securityCellSetId value included in the sk-CounterConfigToRemoveList that is part of the current sk-CounterConfigToAddModList in VarConditionalReconfig:
2>	remove the entry with the matching securityCellSetId from the sk-CounterConfigToAddModList;
5.3.5.13.8	Subsequent CPAC execution
Upon the conditional reconfiguration execution for subsequent CPAC, the UE shall:
1>	if the selected subsequent CPAC candidate configuration is stored in MCG VarConditionalReconfig:
2>	for each SRB/DRB in current UE configuration:
-	keep the associated RLC, PDCP and SDAP entities, their state variables, buffers and timers;
-	release all fields related to the SRB/DRB configuration except for srb-Identity, drb-Identity, and securityConfig;
2>	release/clear all current dedicated radio configuration except for the following:
-	the MCG C-RNTI;
-	the AS security configurations associated with the master key and the secondary key;
-	the logicalChannelIdentity and logicalChannelIdentityExt of RLC bearers configured in RLC-BearerConfig and the associated RLC entities, their state variables, buffers, and timers;
-	the bh-LogicalChannelIdentity of BH RLC channels configured in BH-RLC-ChannelConfig and the associated RLC entities, their state variables, buffers, and timers;
-	the UE variables VarConditionalReconfig and VarServingSecurityCellSetID;
-	the logged measurement configuration.
2>	release/clear all current common radio configuration, except for the ServingCellConfigCommon of the PCell;
2>	apply the default MAC Cell Group configuration for MCG MAC and SCG MAC as specified in 9.2.2;
2>	use the default values specified in 9.2.3 for timers T310, T311 and constants N310, N311, where T310, N310, and N311 are for both MCG and SCG, and T311 is only for the MCG;
2>	apply the default L1 parameter values as specified in corresponding physical layer specifications for the MCG and SCG;
1>	else:
2>	for each SRB/DRB in current UE configuration:
-	keep the associated PDCP and SDAP entities, their state variables, buffers and timers;
-	release all fields related to the SRB/DRB configuration except for srb-Identity, drb-Identity, and securityConfig;
2>	release/clear all current dedicated radio configuration associated with the SCG except for the following:
-	the AS security configurations associated with the secondary key;
-	the UE variables VarConditionalReconfig.
2>	release/clear all current common radio configuration associated with the SCG;
2>	apply the default MAC Cell Group configuration for the SCG MAC as specified in 9.2.2;
2>	use the default values specified in 9.2.3 for timer T310 and constants N310 and N311 for the SCG ;
2>	apply the default L1 parameter values as specified in corresponding physical layer specifications for the SCG;
1>	if the securityCellSetId is included in the entry in VarConditionalReconfig containing the RRCReconfiguration message:
2>	if servingSecurityCellSetId is not included within VarServingSecurityCellSetID; or
2>	if the value of the securityCellSetId is not equal to the value of servingSecurityCellSetId within VarServingSecurityCellSetID:
3>	consider the first sk-Counter value in the sk-CounterList associated with the securityCellSetId within the VarConditionalReconfig as the selected sk-Counter value, and perform security key update procedure as specified in 5.3.5.7;
3>	remove the selected sk-Counter value from the sk-CounterList associated with the securityCellSetId within the VarConditionalReconfig;
3>	if the current VarServingSecurityCellSetID includes servingSecurityCellSetId:
4>	replace the value of servingSecurityCellSetId within VarServingSecurityCellSetID with the value of securityCellSetId associated with the selected cell;
3>	else:
4>	store the servingSecurityCellSetId within VarServingSecurityCellSetID with the value of securityCellSetId associated with the selected cell;
1>	if the selected subsequent CPAC candidate configuration is stored in the SCG VarConditionalReconfig:
2>	for each drb-Identity value included in each RadioBearerConfig in the selected subsequent CPAC candidate configuration that is part of the current UE configuration, the UE shall perform the following actions after the end of this procedure:
3>	if the bearer is an AM DRB:
4>	trigger the PDCP entity of the bearer to perform PDCP data recovery as specified in TS 38.323 [5];
3>	re-establish the corresponding RLC entity as specified in TS 38.322 [4];
1>	else:
2>	for each drb-Identity value included in each RadioBearerConfig in the selected subsequent CPAC candidate configuration that is part of the current UE configuration, the UE shall perform the following actions after the end of this procedure:
3>	if the keyToUse in the RadioBearerConfig is different from the keyToUse in the current UE configuration; or
3>	if the bearer is associated with the secondary key (S-KgNB) as indicated by keyToUse in the current UE configuration and a new sk-Counter value has been selected due to the conditional reconfiguration execution for subsequent CPAC:
4>	if the PDCP entity of this DRB is not configured with cipheringDisabled:
5>	configure the PDCP entity with the ciphering algorithm and KUPenc key associated with the master key (KgNB) or the secondary key (S-KgNB), as indicated in keyToUse, i.e., the ciphering configuration shall be applied to all subsequent PDCP PDUs received and sent by the UE;
4>	if the PDCP entity of this DRB is configured with integrityProtection:
5>	configure the PDCP entity with the integrity protection algorithms according to securityConfig and apply the KUPint key associated with the master key (KgNB) or the secondary key (S-KgNB) as indicated in keyToUse;
4>	if drb-ContinueROHC is included in pdcp-Config:
5>	indicate to lower layer that drb-ContinueROHC is configured;
4>	if drb-ContinueEHC-DL is included in pdcp-Config:
5>	indicate to lower layer that drb-ContinueEHC-DL is configured;
4>	if drb-ContinueEHC-UL is included in pdcp-Config:
5>	indicate to lower layer that drb-ContinueEHC-UL is configured;
4>	if drb-ContinueUDC is included in pdcp-Config:
5>	indicate to lower layer that drb-ContinueUDC is configured;
4>	re-establish the corresponding RLC entity as specified in TS 38.322 [4];
4>	trigger the PDCP entity of the bearer to perform PDCP re-establishment as specified in TS 38.323 [5];
3>	else:
4>	if there is an associated SCG RLC bearer in the selected subsequent CPAC candidate configuration that is part of the current UE configuration:
5>	re-establish the SCG RLC entity as specified in TS 38.322 [4];
4>	if the RLC entity of the associated RLC bearer(s) is re-established; or
4>	if an associated RLC bearer is released in the selected subsequent CPAC candidate configuration:
5>	if the bearer is an AM DRB:
6>	trigger the PDCP entity of the bearer to perform PDCP data recovery as specified in TS 38.323 [5];
2>	for each srb-Identity included in RadioBearerConfig that is part of the current UE configuration and if the radio bearer is SRB3 or SRB5, the UE shall perform the following actions after the end of this procedure:
3>	if a new sk-Counter value has been selected due to the conditional reconfiguration execution for subsequent CPAC:
4>	configure the PDCP entity to apply the integrity protection algorithm and KRRCint key associated with the secondary key (S-KgNB) as indicated in keyToUse, i.e. the integrity protection configuration shall be applied to all subsequent messages received and sent by the UE, including the message used to indicate the successful completion of the procedure;
4>	configure the PDCP entity to apply the ciphering algorithm and KRRCenc key associated with the secondary key (S-KgNB) as indicated in keyToUse, i.e. the ciphering configuration shall be applied to all subsequent messages received and sent by the UE, including the message used to indicate the successful completion of the procedure;
4>	trigger the PDCP entity of SRB to perform PDCP re-establishment as specified in TS 38.323 [5];
3>	else:
4>	trigger the PDCP entity of SRB to perform SDU discard as specified in TS 38.323 [5];
3>	re-establish the corresponding RLC entity as specified in TS 38.322 [4];
1>	if scpac-ConfigComplete is not included within the VarConditionalReconfig for the selected cell:
2>	if the subsequent CPAC candidate cell configuration is stored in MCG VarConditionalReconfig:
3>	consider scpac-ReferenceConfiguration in MCG VarConditionalReconfig to be the current UE configuration;
2>	else:
3>	consider scpac-ReferenceConfiguration in SCG VarConditionalReconfig to be the current SCG configuration;
NOTE 1:	When the UE considers the reference configuration to be the current UE configuration, the UE should store fields and configurations that are part of the reference configuration but should not execute any actions or procedures triggered by the reception of an RRCReconfiguration message which are described in clause 5.3.5.3.
1>	apply the stored condRRCReconfig of the selected cell(s) and perform the actions as specified in 5.3.5.3;
1>	release the radio bearer(s) and the associated logical channel(s) that are part of the current UE configuration but not part of the subsequent CPAC candidate configuration for the selected cell, or the subsequent CPAC reference configuration (in case the subsequent CPAC candidate configuration does not include scpac-ConfigComplete).
NOTE 2:	When scpac-ConfigComplete is not included for the selected cell, before a subsequent CPAC execution, a UE implementation may generate and store an RRC reconfiguration message by applying the received subsequent CPAC candidate configuration on top of the subsequent CPAC reference configuration, and the stored RRC reconfiguration message is applied for subsequent CPAC execution. The UE needs to ensure that the RRC reconfiguration applied at the time of subsequent CPAC execution is in accordance with the latest received scpac-ReferenceConfiguration and condRRCReconfig for the subsequent CPAC configuration.
5.3.5.13a	SCG activation
Upon initiating the procedure, the UE shall:
1>	if the UE is configured with an SCG after receiving the message for which this procedure is initiated:
2>	if the UE was configured with a deactivated SCG before receiving the message for which this procedure is initiated:
3>	consider the SCG to be activated;
3>	resume performing radio link monitoring on the SCG, if previously stopped;
3>	indicate to lower layers to resume beam failure detection on the PSCell, if previously stopped;
3>	indicate to lower layers that the SCG is activated.
5.3.5.13b	SCG deactivation
Upon initiating the procedure, the UE shall:
1>	consider the SCG to be deactivated;
1>	indicate to lower layers that the SCG is deactivated;
1>	if bfd-and-RLM is configured to true:
2>	perform radio link monitoring on the SCG;
2>	indicate to lower layers to perform beam failure detection on the PSCell;
1>	else:
2>	stop radio link monitoring on the SCG;
2>	indicate to lower layers to stop beam failure detection on the PSCell;
2>	stop timer T310 for this cell group, if running;
2>	stop timer T312 for this cell group, if running;
2>	reset the counters N310 and N311;
1>	if the UE was in RRC_CONNECTED and the SCG was activated before receiving the message for which this procedure is initiated:
2>	if SRB3 was configured before the reception of the RRCReconfiguration or of the RRCConnectionReconfiguration and SRB3 is not to be released according to any RadioBearerConfig included in the RRCReconfiguration or in the RRCConnectionReconfiguration as specified in TS 36.331[10]:
3>	trigger the PDCP entity of SRB3 to perform SDU discard as specified in TS 38.323 [5];
3>	re-establish the RLC entity of SRB3 as specified in TS 38.322 [4].
5.3.5.13b1	SCG activation without SN message
Upon initiating the procedure, the UE shall:
1>	if the SCG was deactivated before the reception of the RRCReconfiguration message or the E-UTRA RRCConnectionReconfiguration message for which the procedure invoking this clause is executed:
2>	consider the SCG to be activated;
2>	indicate to lower layers that the SCG is activated;
2>	resume performing radio link monitoring on the SCG, if previously stopped;
2>	indicate to lower layers to resume beam failure detection on the PSCell, if previously stopped;
2>	if bfd-and-RLM was not configured to true before the reception of the RRCReconfiguration message or the E-UTRA RRCConnectionReconfiguration message for which the procedure invoking this clause is executed; or
2>	if lower layers indicate that a Random Access procedure is needed for SCG activation:
3>	initiate the Random Access procedure on the PSCell, as specified in TS 38.321 [3].
5.3.5.13c	FR2 UL gap configuration
The UE shall:
1>	if ul-GapFR2-Config is set to setup:
2>	if an FR2 UL gap configuration is already setup, release the FR2 UL gap configuration;
2>	setup the FR2 UL gap configuration indicated by the ul-GapFR2-Config in accordance with the received gapOffset, i.e., the first subframe of each gap occurs at an SFN and subframe meeting the following condition:
SFN mod T = FLOOR (gapOffset/10);
if the UGRP is larger than 5ms:
subframe = gapOffset mod 10;
else:
subframe = gapOffset or (gapOffset +5);
with T = CEIL(UGRP/10).
1>	else if ul-GapFR2-Config is set to release:
2>	release the FR2 UL gap configuration.
NOTE 1:	For ul-GapFR2-Config configuration with synchronous CA, the SFN and subframe of a serving cell on FR2 frequency is used in the gap calculation. For ul-GapFR2-Config configuration with asynchronous CA, the SFN and subframe of a serving cell on FR2 frequency indicated by the refFR2-ServCellAsyncCA in ul-GapFR2-Config is used in the gap calculation.
5.3.5.13d	Application layer measurement configuration
The UE shall:
1>	if measConfigAppLayerToReleaseList is included in appLayerMeasConfig within RRCReconfiguration or RRCResume:
2>	for each measConfigAppLayerId value included in the measConfigAppLayerToReleaseList:
3>	forward the measConfigAppLayerId and inform upper layers about the release of the application layer measurement configuration including any RAN visible application layer measurement configuration;
3>	discard any application layer measurement reports received from upper layers;
3>	release the application layer measurement configuration including its fields in the UE variables VarAppLayerIdleConfig and VarAppLayerPLMN-ListConfig, if stored;
3>	consider itself not to be configured to send application layer measurement reports for the measConfigAppLayerId.
1>	if measConfigAppLayerToAddModList is included in appLayerMeasConfig within RRCReconfiguration or RRCResume:
2>	for each measConfigAppLayerId value included in the measConfigAppLayerToAddModList:
3>	if measConfigAppLayerContainer is included for the corresponding MeasConfigAppLayer configuration:
4>	forward the measConfigAppLayerContainer, the measConfigAppLayerId and the serviceType to upper layers considering the serviceType;
3>	consider itself to be configured to send application layer measurement report for the measConfigAppLayerId in accordance with 5.7.16;
3>	forward the transmissionOfSessionStartStop, if configured, and measConfigAppLayerId to upper layers considering the serviceType;
3>	if ran-VisibleParameters is set to setup:
4>	forward the measConfigAppLayerId, the ran-VisiblePeriodicity, if configured, the numberOfBufferLevelEntries, if configured, and the reportPlayoutDelayForMediaStartup, if configured, to upper layers considering the serviceType;
3>	else if ran-VisibleParameters is set to release:
4>	forward the measConfigAppLayerId and inform upper layers about the release of the RAN visible application layer measurement configuration;
4>	discard any RAN visible application layer measurement reports received from upper layers;
3>	if pauseReporting is set to true:
4>	if at least one segment, but not all segments, of a segmented MeasurementReportAppLayer message containing an application layer measurement report associated with the measConfigAppLayerId has been submitted to lower layers for transmission:
5>	submit the remaining segments of the MeasurementReportAppLayer message to lower layers for transmission;
4>	suspend submitting application layer measurement report containers to lower layers for the application layer measurement configuration associated with the measConfigAppLayerId;
4>	store any previously or subsequently received application layer measurement report containers associated with the measConfigAppLayerId for which the successful transmission of the message or at least one segment of the message has not been confirmed by lower layers;
4>	if the memory reserved for storing application layer measurement report containers becomes full while the reporting is paused:
5>	if the reports are associated with a configuration including appLayerMeasPriority:
6>	discard reports in priority order where reports with the lowest priority are discarded first, and among reports with equal associated priority, discard reports in the order they were received, where older reports are discarded first;
5>	else:
6>	discard reports in the order they were received, where older reports are discarded first;
3>	else if pauseReporting is set to false and if transmission of application layer measurement report containers has previously been suspended for the application layer measurement configuration associated with the measConfigAppLayerId:
4>	submit stored application layer measurement report containers to lower layers, if any, for the application layer measurements configuration associated with the measConfigAppLayerId;
4>	resume submitting application layer measurement report containers to lower layers for the application layer measurement configuration associated with the measConfigAppLayerId;
3>	if appLayerIdleInactiveConfig is set to setup:
4>	store the received qoe-Reference, measConfigAppLayerId, serviceType, qoe-MeasurementType, qoe-AreaScope, mce-Id, availableRAN-VisibleMetrics and appLayerMeasPriority (if included) in VarAppLayerIdleConfig;
4>	if the qoe-AreaScope includes plmn-IdentityList:
5>	set plmn-IdentityList in VarAppLayerPLMN-ListConfig to include the RPLMN as well as the PLMNs included in plmn-IdentityList;
4>	else:
5>	set plmn-IdentityList in VarAppLayerPLMN-ListConfig to include the RPLMN;
3>	else if appLayerIdleInactiveConfig is set to release:
4>	release appLayerIdleInactiveConfig.
NOTE 1:	The UE may discard reports when the memory reserved for storing application layer measurement report containers becomes full. If no or equal appLayerMeasPriority is configured, older reports are discarded first.
NOTE 2:	The transmission of RAN visible application layer measurement reports and appLayerSessionStatus is not paused when pauseReporting is set to true.
NOTE 3:	The UE may discard an application layer measurement configuration and associated unsent reports after 48 hours in RRC_IDLE. The time duration stops incrementing and is reset to zero if the UE is transferred to RRC_CONNECTED.
NOTE 4:	Release of a previously configured value in ran-VisibleParameters is needed (independently of its RRC Need code) before a new value is forwarded to upper layers.
5.3.5.14	Sidelink dedicated configuration
Upon initiating the procedure, the UE shall:
1>	if sl-FreqInfoToReleaseList is included in sl-ConfigDedicatedNR within RRCReconfiguration:
2>	for each entry included in the received sl-FreqInfoToReleaseList that is part of the current UE configuration:
3>	release the related configurations from the stored NR sidelink communication/discovery configurations;
1>	if sl-FreqInfoToAddModList/sl-FreqInfoToAddModListExt is included in sl-ConfigDedicatedNR within RRCReconfiguration:
2>	if configured to receive NR sidelink communication:
3>	use the resource pool(s) indicated by sl-RxPool for NR sidelink communication reception, as specified in 5.8.7;
2>	if configured to transmit NR sidelink communication:
3>	use the resource pool(s) indicated by sl-TxPoolSelectedNormal, sl-TxPoolScheduling or sl-TxPoolExceptional for NR sidelink communication transmission, as specified in 5.8.8;
2>	if configured to receive NR sidelink discovery:
3>	use the resource pool(s) indicated by sl-DiscRxPool or sl-RxPool for NR sidelink discovery reception, as specified in 5.8.13.2;
2>	if configured to transmit NR sidelink discovery:
3>	use the resource pool(s) indicated by sl-DiscTxPoolSelected, sl-DiscTxPoolScheduling, sl-TxPoolSelectedNormal, sl-TxPoolScheduling or sl-TxPoolExceptional for NR sidelink discovery transmission, as specified in 5.8.13.3;
2>	if configured to perform SL-PRS measurement:
3>	use the resource pool(s) indicated by sl-RxPool and/or sl-PRS-RxPool for SL-PRS reception, as specified in 5.8.18.2;
2>	if configured to transmit SL-PRS:
3>	use the resource pool(s) indicated by sl-TxPoolSelectedNormal, sl-TxPoolScheduling, sl-TxPoolExceptional, sl-PRS-TxPoolSelectedNormal, sl-PRS-TxPoolScheduling or sl-PRS-TxPoolExceptional for SL-PRS transmission, as specified in 5.8.18.3;
2>	perform CBR measurement on the transmission resource pool(s) indicated by sl-TxPoolSelectedNormal, sl-TxPoolScheduling, sl-PRS-TxPoolSelectedNormal, sl-PRS-TxPoolScheduling, sl-DiscTxPoolSelected, sl-DiscTxPoolScheduling, sl-TxPoolExceptional or sl-PRS-TxPoolExceptional for NR sidelink communication/discovery/positioning transmission, as specified in 5.5.3;
2>	use the synchronization configuration parameters for NR sidelink communication/discovery/positioning on frequencies included in sl-FreqInfoToAddModList/sl-FreqInfoToAddModListExt, as specified in 5.8.5;
1>	if sl-RadioBearerToReleaseList or sl-RLC-BearerToReleaseList is included in sl-ConfigDedicatedNR within RRCReconfiguration:
2>	perform sidelink DRB release as specified in 5.8.9.1a.1;
1>	if sl-RLC-BearerToReleaseListSizeExt is included in sl-ConfigDedicatedNR within RRCReconfiguration:
2>	perform additional sidelink RLC bearer release as specified in 5.8.9.1a.5;
1>	if sl-RadioBearerToAddModList or sl-RLC-BearerToAddModList is included in sl-ConfigDedicatedNR within RRCReconfiguration:
2>	perform sidelink DRB addition/modification as specified in 5.8.9.1a.2;
1>	if sl-RLC-BearerToAddModListSizeExt is included in sl-ConfigDedicatedNR within RRCReconfiguration:
2>	perform additional sidelink RLC bearer addition/modification as specified in 5.8.9.1a.6;
1>	if sl-ScheduledConfig is included in sl-ConfigDedicatedNR within RRCReconfiguration:
2>	configure the MAC entity parameters, which are to be used for NR sidelink communication/discovery, in accordance with the received sl-ScheduledConfig;
1>	if sl-UE-SelectedConfig is included in sl-ConfigDedicatedNR within RRCReconfiguration:
2>	configure the parameters, which are to be used for NR sidelink communication/discovery, in accordance with the received sl-UE-SelectedConfig;
1>	if sl-MeasConfigInfoToReleaseList is included in sl-ConfigDedicatedNR within RRCReconfiguration:
2>	for each SL-DestinationIndex included in the received sl-MeasConfigInfoToReleaseList that is part of the current UE configuration:
3>	remove the entry with the matching SL-DestinationIndex from the stored NR sidelink measurement configuration information;
1>	if sl-MeasConfigInfoToAddModList is included in sl-ConfigDedicatedNR within RRCReconfiguration:
2>	for each sl-DestinationIndex included in the received sl-MeasConfigInfoToAddModList that is part of the current stored NR sidelink measurement configuration:
3>	reconfigure the entry according to the value received for this sl-DestinationIndex from the stored NR sidelink measurement configuration information;
2>	for each sl-DestinationIndex included in the received sl-MeasConfigInfoToAddModList that is not part of the current stored NR sidelink measurement configuration:
3>	add a new entry for this sl-DestinationIndex to the stored NR sidelink measurement configuration.
NOTE 1:	The UE is expected to update the mapping between the Destination Layer-2 ID and the destination index for the stored NR sidelink measurement configuration after the UE updates the destination list and reports to the gNB.
1>	if sl-DRX-ConfigGC-BC is included in sl-ConfigDedicatedNR within RRCReconfiguration:
2>	store the NR sidelink DRX configuration and configure lower layers to perform sidelink DRX operation for groupcast and broadcast as specified in TS 38.321 [3];
1>	if sl-DRX-ConfigUC-ToReleaseList is included in sl-ConfigDedicatedNR within RRCReconfiguration:
2>	for each SL-DestinationIndex included in the received sl-DRX-ConfigUC-ToReleaseList that is part of the current UE configuration:
3>	remove the entry with the matching SL-DestinationIndex from the stored NR sidelink DRX configuration information;
1>	if sl-DRX-ConfigUC-ToAddModList is included in sl-ConfigDedicatedNR within RRCReconfiguration:
2>	for each sl-DestinationIndex included in the received sl-DRX-ConfigUC-ToAddModList that is part of the current stored NR sidelink DRX configuration:
3>	reconfigure the entry according to the value received for this sl-DestinationIndex from the stored NR sidelink DRX configuration information;
2>	for each sl-DestinationIndex included in the received sl-DRX-ConfigUC-ToAddModList that is not part of the current stored NR sidelink DRX configuration:
3>	add a new entry for this sl-DestinationIndex to the stored NR sidelink DRX configuration.
NOTE 2:	The UE is expected to update the mapping between the Destination Layer-2 ID and the destination index for the stored NR sidelink DRX configuration after the UE updates the destination list and reports to the gNB.
1>	if sl-RLC-ChannelToReleaseList is included in sl-ConfigDedicatedNR within RRCReconfiguration:
2>	perform PC5 Relay RLC channel release as specified in 5.8.9.7.1;
1>	if sl-RLC-ChannelToAddModList is included in sl-ConfigDedicatedNR within RRCReconfiguration or RRCSetup:
2>	perform PC5 Relay RLC channel addition/modification as specified in 5.8.9.7.2;
5.3.5.15	L2 U2N or U2U Relay UE configuration
5.3.5.15.1	General
The network configures the L2 U2N or U2U Relay UE with relay operation related configurations. For each connected L2 U2N or U2U Remote UE indicated in sl-L2IdentityRemote, the network provides the configuration parameters used for relaying.
The L2 U2N Relay UE shall:
1>	if sl-L2RelayUE-Config is set to setup:
2>	if the sl-L2RelayUE-Config contains the sl-RemoteUE-ToReleaseList:
3>	perform the L2 U2N Remote UE release as specified in 5.3.5.15.2;
2>	if the sl-L2RelayUE-Config contains the sl-RemoteUE-ToAddModList:
3>	perform the L2 U2N Remote UE addition/modification as specified in 5.3.5.15.3;
1>	else if sl-L2RelayUE-Config is set to release:
2>	release the L2 U2N relay operation related configurations.
The L2 U2U Relay UE shall:
1>	if sl-L2RelayUE-Config is set to setup:
2>	if the sl-L2RelayUE-Config contains the sl-U2U-RemoteUE-ToReleaseList:
3>	perform the L2 U2U Remote UE release as specified in 5.3.5.15.2;
2>	if the sl-L2RelayUE-Config contains the sl-U2U-RemoteUE-ToAddModList:
3>	perform the L2 U2U Remote UE addition/modification as specified in 5.3.5.15.3;
1>	else if sl-L2RelayUE-Config is set to release:
2>	release the L2 U2U relay operation related configurations.
5.3.5.15.2	L2 U2N or U2U Remote UE Release
The L2 U2N Relay UE shall:
1>	if the release is triggered by reception of the sl-RemoteUE-ToReleaseList:
2>	for each SL-DestinationIdentity value included in the sl-RemoteUE-ToReleaseList:
3>	if the current UE has a PC5 RRC connection to a L2 U2N Remote UE with SL-DestinationIdentity:
4>	indicate upper layers to trigger PC5 unicast link release.
The L2 U2U Relay UE shall:
1>	if the release is triggered by reception of the sl-U2U-RemoteUE-ToReleaseList:
2>	for each SL-DestinationIdentity value included in the sl-U2U-RemoteUE-ToReleaseList:
3>	if the current UE has a PC5-RRC connection to a L2 U2U Remote UE with this SL-DestinationIdentity:
4>	release the configuration associated with the L2 U2U Remote UE.
5.3.5.15.3	L2 U2N or U2U Remote UE Addition/Modification
The L2 U2N Relay UE shall:
1>	if no SRAP entity has been established:
2>	establish a SRAP entity as specified in TS 38.351 [66];
1>	for each sl-L2IdentityRemote value included in the sl-RemoteUE-ToAddModList that is not part of the current UE configuration (L2 U2N Remote UE Addition):
2>	configure the parameters to SRAP entity in accordance with the sl-SRAP-ConfigRelay;
2>	if SRB1 is included in sl-MappingToAddModList, and sl-EgressRLC-ChannelPC5 is configured:
3>	release SL-RLC1, if established;
3>	associate the PC5 Relay RLC channel as indicated by sl-EgressRLC-ChannelPC5 with SRB1;
2>	else: (i.e. SRB1 is not included in sl-MappingToAddModList, or SRB1 is included in sl-MappingToAddModList, but sl-EgressRLC-ChannelPC5 is not configured)
3>	if SL-RLC1 is not established:
4>	apply the default configuration of SL-RLC1 as specified in clause 9.2.4 and associate it with the SRB1;
1>	for each sl-L2IdentityRemote value included in the sl-RemoteUE-ToAddModList that is part of the current UE configuration (L2 U2N Remote UE modification):
2>	modify the configuration in accordance with the sl-SRAP-ConfigRelay;
The L2 U2U Relay UE shall:
1>	if no SRAP entity has been established:
2>	establish a SRAP entity as specified in TS 38.351 [66];
1>	for each target L2 U2U Remote UE indicated in sl-L2IdentityRemoteUE value included in the sl-U2U-RemoteUE-ToAddModList that is not part of the current UE configuration (target L2 U2U Remote UE Addition):
2>	for each source L2 U2U Remote UE indicated in sl-SourceUE-Identity in accordance with one entry of the sl-SourceRemoteUE-ToAddModList:
3>	configure the parameters to SRAP entity in accordance with the sl-SRAP-ConfigU2U;
1>	for each target L2 U2U Remote UE indicated in sl-L2IdentityRemote value included in the sl-U2U-RemoteUE-ToAddModList that is part of the current UE configuration (target L2 U2U Remote UE modification):
2>	for each source L2 U2U Remote UE indicated in sl-SourceUE-Identity included in the sl-SourceRemoteUE-ToReleaseList (source L2 U2U Remote UE Release):
3>	release the configuration associated with the source L2 U2U Remote UE;
2>	for the source L2 U2U Remote UE indicated in sl-SourceUE-Identity included in the sl-SourceRemoteUE-ToAddModList that is not part of the current UE configuration (source L2 U2U Remote UE Addition):
3>	configure the parameters to SRAP entity in accordance with the sl-SRAP-ConfigU2U;
2>	for the source L2 U2U Remote UE indicated in sl-SourceUE-Identity included in the sl-SourceRemoteUE-ToAddModList that is part of the current UE configuration (source L2 U2U Remote UE modification):
3>	modify the configuration in accordance with the sl-SRAP-ConfigU2U;
5.3.5.16	L2 U2N or U2U Remote UE configuration
The network configures the L2 U2N or U2U Remote UE with relay operation related configurations, e.g. SRAP configuration.
The L2 U2N Remote UE shall:
1>	if sl-L2RemoteUE-Config is set to setup or received from RRCSetup message:
2>	if the sl-L2RemoteUE-Config contains the sl-SRAP-ConfigRemote:
3>	if no SRAP entity has been established:
4>	establish a SRAP entity as specified in TS 38.351 [66];
3>	configure the parameters to SRAP entity in accordance with the sl-SRAP-ConfigRemote;
3>	if SRB1 is included in sl-MappingToAddModList, and sl-EgressRLC-ChannelPC5 is configured:
4>	release SL-RLC1, if established;
4> associate the PC5 Relay RLC channel as indicated by sl-EgressRLC-ChannelPC5 with SRB1;
3>	else: (i.e. SRB1 is not included in sl-MappingToAddModList, or SRB1 is included in sl-MappingToAddModList, but sl-EgressRLC-ChannelPC5 is not configured)
4>	if SL-RLC1 is not established:
5>	apply the default configuration of SL-RLC1 as specified in clause 9.2.4 and associate it with the SRB1;
2>	if the sl-L2RemoteUE-Config contains the sl-UEIdentityRemote:
3>	use the value of the sl-UEIdentityRemote as the C-RNTI in the PCell.
1>	else if sl-L2RemoteUE-Config is set to release:
2>	release the L2 U2N relay operation related configurations.
The L2 U2U Remote UE shall:
1>	if sl-L2RemoteUE-Config is set to setup:
2>	if the sl-L2RemoteUE-Config contains the sl-U2U-RelayUE-ToReleaseList:
3>	perform the L2 U2U Relay UE release as specified in 5.3.5.16.1;
2>	if the sl-L2RemoteUE-Config contains the sl-U2U-RelayUE-ToAddModList:
3>	perform the L2 U2U Relay UE addition/modification as specified in 5.3.5.16.2;
1>	else if sl-L2RemoteUE-Config is set to release:
2>	release the L2 U2U relay operation related configurations.
5.3.5.16.1	L2 U2U Relay UE Release
The L2 U2U Remote UE shall:
1>	if the release is triggered by reception of the sl-U2U-RelayUE-ToReleaseList:
2>	for each SL-DestinationIdentity value included in the sl-U2U-RelayUE-ToReleaseList:
3>	release the configuration associated with the L2 U2U Relay UE.
5.3.5.16.2	L2 U2U Relay UE Addition/Modification
The L2 U2U Remote UE shall:
1>	if no SRAP entity has been established:
2>	establish a SRAP entity as specified in TS 38.351 [66];
1>	for each L2 U2U Relay UE indicated in sl-L2IdentityRelay value included in the sl-U2U-RelayUE-ToAddModList that is not part of the current UE configuration (L2 U2U Relay UE Addition):
2>	for target L2 U2U Remote UE indicated in sl-TargetUE-Identity in accordance with one entry of the SL-PeerRemoteUE-ToAddModList:
3>	configure the parameters to SRAP entity in accordance with the sl-SRAP-ConfigU2U;
1>	for each L2 U2U Relay UE indicated in sl-L2IdentityRelay value included in the sl-U2U-RelayUE-ToAddModList that is part of the current UE configuration (L2 U2U Relay UE modification):
2>	for each SL-DestinationIdentity value included in the sl-TargetRemoteUE-ToReleaseList (target L2 U2U Remote UE Release):
3>	release the configuration associated with the peer target L2 U2U Remote UE;
2>	for the target L2 U2U Remote UE indicated in sl-TargetUE-Identity included in the sl-TargetRemoteUE-ToAddModList that is not part of the current UE configuration (target L2 U2U Remote UE Addition):
3>	configure the parameters to SRAP entity in accordance with the sl-SRAP-ConfigU2U;
2>	for the target L2 U2U Remote UE indicated in sl-TargetUE-Identity included in the sl-TargetRemoteUE-ToAddModList that is part of the current UE configuration (target L2 U2U Remote UE modification):
3>	modify the configuration in accordance with the sl-SRAP-ConfigU2U;
5.3.5.17	MP configuration
5.3.5.17.1	Introduction
In case of MP, a MP remote UE is configured with one direct path (i.e. MCG) and one indirect path. The MP remote UE connects to network on the direct path using NR Uu, and connects to network on the indirect path via a MP relay UE.
On indirect path, for the hop between the MP remote UE and the MP relay UE, when the MP remote UE connects to a L2 U2N Relay UE, i.e. the MP remote UE is acting as a L2 U2N Remote UE, the network provides the configuration of SL indirect path to the MP remote UE and the L2 U2N Relay UE as specified in 5.3.5.17.2; when the MP remote UE connects to a N3C relay UE using non-3GPP connection, the network provides the configuration of N3C indirect path to the MP remote UE and the N3C relay UE as specified in 5.3.5.17.3.
5.3.5.17.2	Configuration of SL indirect path
5.3.5.17.2.1	General
For SL indirect path:
-	the L2 U2N Remote UE is provided with sidelink dedicated configuration as specified in 5.3.5.14, L2 U2N Remote UE configuration as specified in 5.3.5.16, and SL indirect path specific configuration as specified in 5.3.5.17.2.2;
-	the L2 U2N Relay UE is provided with sidelink dedicated configuration as specified in 5.3.5.14, L2 U2N Relay UE configuration as specified in 5.3.5.15, as well as Uu Relay RLC channel configuration as specified in 5.3.5.5.12 and 5.3.5.5.13.
5.3.5.17.2.2	SL indirect path specific configuration
The L2 U2N Remote UE shall:
1>	if sl-IndirectPathAddChange is set to setup:
2>	if the sl-IndirectPathMaintain is included in reconfigurationWithSync:
3>	consider the source L2 U2N Relay UE to be the L2 U2N Relay UE on indirect path in MP operation;
2>	else:
3>	consider the UE indicated by the sl-IndirectPathRelayUE-Identity to be the (target) L2 U2N Relay UE and indicate to upper layer to trigger the PC5 unicast link establishment with the L2 U2N Relay UE;
3>	start timer T421 for the corresponding L2 U2N Relay UE with the timer value set to T421;
3>	if reconfigurationWithSync is not included in the same RRCReconfiguration message:
4>	indicate to upper layer (to trigger the PC5 unicast link release) with the source L2 U2N Relay UE in case of SL indirect path change (i.e. a new L2 U2N Relay UE is indicated via sl-IndirectPathRelayUE-Identity);
1>	else if sl-IndirectPathAddChange is set to release:
2>	consider the SL indirect path is released and release the corresponding configurations;
2>	indicate to upper layer (to trigger the PC5 unicast link release) with the L2 U2N Relay UE.
NOTE:	The MP direct path addition is realized by indirect-to-direct path switch procedure (i.e. ReconfigurationWithSync included in RRCReconfiguration message), where sl-IndirectPathAddChange is set to setup in RRCReconfiguration message.
5.3.5.17.2.3	T421 expiry (Indirect path addition/change failure)
The L2 U2N Remote UE shall:
1> if T421 expires; or
1> if the (target) L2 U2N Relay UE (i.e., the UE indicated by sl-IndirectPathRelayUE-Identity in the received sl-IndirectPathAddChange) changes its serving cell to a different cell from the target cell (i.e. the cell indicated by sl-IndirectPathCellIdentity in the received sl-IndirectPathAddChange) during path addition or change:
2>	if MCG transmission is not suspended:
3>	initiate the indirect path failure information procedure as specified in clause 5.7.3c to report SL indirect path addition/change failure;
2>	else:
3>	initiate the connection re-establishment procedure as specified in clause 5.3.7;
5.3.5.17.3	Configuration of N3C indirect path
5.3.5.17.3.1	General
For N3C indirect path,
-	the N3C remote UE is provided with N3C indirect path configuration including relay UE identification as specified in 5.3.5.17.3.2;
-	the N3C relay UE is provided with N3C indirect path configuration including bearer mapping configurations as specified in 5.3.5.17.3.4, as well as Uu Relay RLC channel configuration as specified in 5.3.5.5.12 and 5.3.5.5.13.
NOTE: The data transmission/reception between the N3C remote UE and the N3C relay UE via the non-3GPP connection is outside the scope of 3GPP.
5.3.5.17.3.2	N3C remote UE configuration
The N3C remote UE shall:
1>	if n3c-IndirectPathAddChange is set to setup:
2>	consider the non-3GPP connection with the relay UE indicated by the n3c-RelayIdentification to be used for the N3C indirect path;
2>	consider the source non-3GPP connection is not to be used in case of N3C indirect path change (i.e. a new relay UE is indicated by the n3c-RelayIdentification);
1>	else if n3c-IndirectPathAddChange is set to release:
2>	consider the indirect path is not to be used and release the corresponding configuration.
5.3.5.17.3.2a	N3C Indirect path addition/change failure
The N3C remote UE shall:
1> if N3C Indirect path addition/change failure is detected:
2>	if MCG transmission is not suspended:
3>	initiate the indirect path failure information procedure as specified in clause 5.7.3c to report N3C indirect path addition/change failure;
2>	else:
3>	initiate the connection re-establishment procedure as specified in clause 5.3.7;
NOTE:	How to detect N3C Indirect path addition/change failure is up to UE implementation.
5.3.5.17.3.3	N3C relay UE configuration
The N3C relay UE shall:
1>	if n3c-IndirectPathConfigRelay is set to setup:
2>	if n3c-MappingToReleaseList is included:
3>	perform N3C bearer mapping release as specified in 5.3.5.17.3.4.1;
2>	if n3c-MappingToAddModList is included:
3>	perform N3C bearer mapping addition/modification as specified in 5.3.5.17.3.4.2;
1>	else if n3c-IndirectPathConfigRelay is set to release:
2>	consider the indirect path with the remote UE is released and release the corresponding configuration.
5.3.5.17.3.4	Bearer mapping management on N3C indirect path
5.3.5.17.3.4.1	Bearer mapping release
The UE shall:
1>	if the release is triggered by reception of n3c-IndirectPathConfigRelay set to release:
2>	for all configured SL-RemoteUE-RB-Identity value:
3>	release n3c-RLC-ChannelUu and n3c-RemoteUE-RB-Identity;
1>	else if the release is triggered by reception of the n3c-MappingToReleaseList:
2>	for each SL-RemoteUE-RB-Identity value included in n3c-MappingToReleaseList:
3>	release the corresponding n3c-RLC-ChannelUu and n3c-RemoteUE-RB-Identity;
5.3.5.17.3.4.2	Bearer mapping addition and modification
The UE shall:
1>	for each n3c-RemoteUE-RB-Identity value included in the n3c-MappingToAddModList that is not part of the current UE configuration:
2>	associate the remote UE's RB indicated in n3c-RemoteUE-RB-Identity to the Uu Relay RLC channel indicated in n3c-RLC-ChannelUu;
1>	for the n3c-RemoteUE-RB-Identity value included in the n3c-MappingToAddModList that is part of the current UE configuration:
2>	update the associated Uu Relay RLC channel to the one indicated in n3c-RLC-ChannelUu.
5.3.5.18	LTM configuration and execution
5.3.5.18.1	LTM configuration
The network configures the UE with one or more LTM candidate configurations within the LTM-Config IE.
In NR-DC, the UE may receive two independent ltm-Config:
-	an ltm-Config associated with the MCG that is included within an RRCReconfiguration message received via SRB1; and
-	an ltm-Config associated with the SCG that is included within an RRCReconfiguration message either received via SRB3, or, alternatively, embedded in an RRCReconfiguration message received via SRB1.
In case the UE receives two independent ltm-Config:
-	the UE maintains two independent ltm-Config;
-	the UE maintains two independent VarLTM-ServingCellNoResetID, one associated with each ltm-Config;
-	the UE maintains two independent VarLTM-ServingCellUE-MeasuredTA-ID, one associated with each ltm-Config;
-	the UE independently performs all the procedures in clause 5.3.5.18 for each ltm-Config and the associated VarLTM-ServingCellNoResetID and VarLTM-ServingCellUE-MeasuredTA-ID unless explicitly stated otherwise.
The UE shall perform the following actions based on the received LTM-Config IE:
1>	if the received LTM-Config includes ltm-ServingCellNoResetID:
2>	if the current VarLTM-ServingCellNoResetID includes an ltm-ServingCellNoResetID:
3>	replace the ltm-ServingCellNoResetID value within VarLTM-ServingCellNoResetID with the received ltm-ServingCellNoResetID;
2>	else:
3>	store the received ltm-ServingCellNoResetID in VarLTM-ServingCellNoResetID;
1>	if the received LTM-Config includes ltm-ServingCellUE-MeasuredTA-ID:
2>	if the current VarLTM-ServingCellUE-MeasuredTA-ID includes an ltm-ServingCellUE-MeasuredTA-ID:
3>	replace the ltm-ServingCellUE-MeasuredTA-ID value within VarLTM-ServingCellUE-MeasuredTA-ID with the received ltm-ServingCellUE-MeasuredTA-ID;
2>	else:
3>	store the received ltm-ServingCellUE-MeasuredTA-ID in VarLTM-ServingCellUE-MeasuredTA-ID;
1>	if the received LTM-Config includes the ltm-CandidateToReleaseList:
2>	perform the LTM candidate configuration release as specified in 5.3.5.18.2;
1>	if the received LTM-Config includes the ltm-CandidateToAddModList:
2>	perform the LTM candidate configuration addition or modification as specified in 5.3.5.18.3;
1>	reconfigure the UE according to all other fields of the received LTM-Config IE.
5.3.5.18.2	LTM candidate configuration release
The UE shall:
1>	for each ltm-CandidateId value included in the ltm-CandidateToReleaseList that is part of the current UE configuration:
2>	remove the corresponding LTM-Candidate.
5.3.5.18.3	LTM candidate configuration addition/modification
The UE shall:
1>	for each ltm-CandidateId value included in the ltm-CandidateToAddModList:
2>	if the current UE configuration contains an LTM-Candidate with the ltm-CandidateId value:
3>	reconfigure the corresponding LTM-Candidate in accordance with the received LTM-Candidate;
2>	else:
3>	add the received LTM-Candidate;
2>	if the LTM-Candidate with the received ltm-CandidateId value includes ltm-UE-MeasuredTA-ID:
3>	if the value of ltm-UE-MeasuredTA-ID is equal to the value of ltm-ServingCellUE-MeasuredTA-ID within VarLTM-ServingCellUE-MeasuredTA-ID:
4>	inform lower layers that the UE is configured with UE-based TA measurements for this LTM-Candidate;
3>	else:
4>	inform lower layers that the UE is not configured with UE-based TA measurements for this LTM-Candidate;
2>	else:
3>	inform lower layers that the UE is not configured with UE-based TA measurements for this LTM-Candidate.
5.3.5.18.4	Void
5.3.5.18.5	Void
5.3.5.18.6	LTM cell switch execution
Upon the indication by lower layers that an LTM cell switch procedure is triggered, or upon performing LTM cell switch following cell selection performed while timer T311 was running, as specified in 5.3.7.3, the UE shall:
1>	if the LTM cell switch is triggered on the MCG:
2>	release/clear all current dedicated and common radio configurations which have neither been received via SRB1 within mrdc-SecondaryCellGroup, nor via SRB3 except for the following:
-	the radio bearer configuration (configured via RadioBearerConfig)
-	the logicalChannelIdentity and logicalChannelIdentityExt of RLC bearers configured in RLC-BearerConfig and the associated RLC entities, their state variables, buffers, and timers, except for triggering the associated RLC entities to reset the variable RETX_COUNT its initial value, as specified in TS 38.322 [4];
-	the bh-LogicalChannelIdentity of BH RLC channels configured in BH-RLC-ChannelConfig and the associated RLC entities, their state variables, buffers, and timers, except for triggering the associated RLC entities to reset the variable RETX_COUNT its initial value, as specified in TS 38.322 [4];
-	the UE variables VarLTM-ServingCellNoResetID and VarLTM-ServingCellUE-MeasuredTA-ID;
-	the ltm-Config;
-	the MCG C-RNTI;
-	the AS security configurations associated with the master key;
-	the logged measurement configuration;
1>	else, if the LTM cell switch is triggered on the SCG:
2>	release/clear all current dedicated and common radio configurations which have been received either via SRB1 within mrdc-SecondaryCellGroup, or via SRB3 except for the following:
-	the radio bearer configuration (configured via RadioBearerConfig IE)
-	the logicalChannelIdentity and logicalChannelIdentityExt of RLC bearers configured in RLC-BearerConfig and the associated RLC entities, their state variables, buffers, and timers, except for triggering the associated RLC entities to reset the variable RETX_COUNT its initial value, as specified in TS 38.322 [4];
-	the bh-LogicalChannelIdentity of BH RLC channels configured in BH-RLC-ChannelConfig and the associated RLC entities, their state variables, buffers, and timers, except for triggering the associated RLC entities to reset the variable RETX_COUNT its initial value, as specified in TS 38.322 [4];
-	the UE variables VarLTM-ServingCellNoResetID and VarLTM-ServingCellUE-MeasuredTA-ID;
-	the ltm-Config;
-	the AS security configurations associated with the secondary key;
1>	for each SRB/DRB in the current UE configuration:
2>	if the LTM cell switch is triggered on the MCG and the SRB/DRB using the master key; or
2>	if the LTM cell switch is triggered on the SCG and the SRB/DRB using the secondary key:
3>	keep the associated PDCP and SDAP entities, their state variables, buffers and timers;
3>	release all fields related to the SRB/DRB configuration except for srb-Identity and drb-Identity;
3>	apply the default SRB configuration defined in 9.2.1 for the corresponding SRB;
NOTE 00:	For all radio bearers and RLC bearers included in the LTM candidate configuration to be applied at an LTM cell switch execution (i.e., as derived from the LTM reference configuration and the LTM candidate configuration), even if those radio bearers and RLC bearers were configured before the LTM cell switch execution, the network includes fields as specified for the initial setup of radio bearers and RLC bearers and sets the values previously stored by the UE for the fields that cannot be modified according to presence conditions or field descriptions.
1>	apply the default L1 parameter values as specified in corresponding physical layer specifications except for the parameters for which values are provided in SIB1;
1>	use the default values specified in 9.2.3 for timers T310, T311 and constants N310, N311 associated with the cell group for which the LTM cell switch procedure is triggered, where T310, N310, and N311 are for both MCG and SCG, and T311 is only for the MCG;
1>	apply the default MAC Cell Group configuration as specified in 9.2.2 for the cell group for which the LTM cell switch procedure is triggered;
1>	if the LTM-Candidate IE in ltm-Config indicated by lower layers or for the selected cell in accordance with 5.3.7.3 does not contain the field ltm-NoResetID and if the UE does not have any value stored of ltm-ServingCellNoResetID within VarLTM-ServingCellNoResetID; or
1>	if the value of field ltm-NoResetID contained within the LTM-Candidate IE in ltm-Config indicated by lower layers or for the selected cell in accordance with 5.3.7.3 is not equal to the value of ltm-ServingCellNoResetID within VarLTM-ServingCellNoResetID:
2>	for each logicalChannelIdentity and logicalChannelIdentityExt that is part of the current UE configuration for the cell group for which the LTM cell switch procedure is triggered:
3>	if servedRadioBearer is set to drb-Identity:
4>	after the end of this procedure, re-establish the corresponding RLC entity as specified in TS 38.322 [4], after applying the LTM configuration in ltm-CandidateConfig within the LTM-Candidate IE in ltm-Config;
2>	for each bh-LogicalChannelIdentity that is part of the current UE configuration for the cell group for which the LTM cell switch procedure is triggered:
3>	after the end of this procedure, re-establish the corresponding RLC entity as specified in TS 38.322 [4], after applying the LTM configuration in ltm-CandidateConfig within the LTM-Candidate IE in ltm-Config;
2>	for each drb-Identity value that is part of the current UE configuration:
3>	if this DRB is an AM DRB:
4>	after the end of this procedure, trigger the PDCP entity of this DRB to perform data recovery as specified in TS 38.323 [5], after applying the LTM configuration in ltm-CandidateConfig within LTM-Candidate IE in ltm-Config;
2>	if the value of field ltm-NoResetID contained within the LTM-Candidate IE in ltm-Config indicated by lower layers or for the selected cell in accordance with 5.3.7.3 is not equal to the value of ltm-ServingCellNoResetID within VarLTM-ServingCellNoResetID:
3>	replace the value of ltm-ServingCellNoResetID in VarLTM-ServingCellNoResetID with the value of ltm-NoResetID in the LTM-Candidate in ltm-Config indicated by lower layers or for the selected cell in accordance with 5.3.7.3;
1> if the LTM-Candidate IE in ltm-Config indicated by lower layers or for the selected cell in accordance with 5.3.7.3 contains the field ltm-UE-MeasuredTA-ID:
2>	if the value of ltm-UE-MeasuredTA-ID is not equal to the value of ltm-ServingCellUE-MeasuredTA-ID within VarLTM-ServingCellUE-MeasuredTA-ID:
3>	replace the value of ltm-ServingCellUE-MeasuredTA-ID in VarLTM-ServingCellUE-MeasuredTA-ID with the value received within ltm-UE-MeasuredTA-ID;
3>	for each LTM-Candidate IE in ltm-Config:
4>	if the value of ltm-UE-MeasuredTA-ID within LTM-Candidate IE is equal to the value of ltm-ServingCellUE-MeasuredTA-ID within VarLTM-ServingCellUE-MeasuredTA-ID:
5>	inform lower layers that the UE is configured with UE-based TA measurements for the LTM-Candidate;
4>	else:
5>	inform lower layers that the UE is not configured with UE-based TA measurements for the LTM-Candidate;
NOTE 0:	The UE is not expected to perform UE-based TA measurements for an SpCell.
1>	if ltm-ConfigComplete is not included within the LTM-Candidate IE in ltm-Config indicated by lower layers or for the selected cell in accordance with 5.3.7.3:
2>	consider ltm-ReferenceConfiguration in ltm-Config, associated with the cell group for which the LTM cell switch procedure is triggered, to be the current UE configuration for the fields and configurations to be released by the actions above in this procedure;
2>	if measConfig is included within ltm-ReferenceConfiguration in ltm-Config;
3>	perform the measurement configuration procedure as specified in clause 5.5.2 by considering the measConfig within ltm-ReferenceConfiguration in ltm-Config as the received measConfig:
NOTE 1:	When the UE considers the reference configuration to be the current UE configuration, the UE should store fields and configurations that are part of the reference configuration but should not execute any actions or procedures triggered by the reception of an RRCReconfiguration message which are described in clause 5.3.5.3, unless specified otherwise in this clause.
1>	if the LTM cell switch is triggered by an indication from lower layers:
2>	apply the RRCReconfiguration message in ltm-CandidateConfig within LTM-Candidate IE in ltm-Config identified by the LTM candidate configuration identity received from lower layers according to clause 5.3.5.3;
1>	else (LTM cell switch triggered upon cell selection performed while timer T311 was running):
2>	apply the RRCReconfiguration message in ltm-CandidateConfig within LTM-Candidate IE in ltm-Config related to the LTM candidate configuration identity for the selected cell (i.e., in accordance with 5.3.7.3) according to clause 5.3.5.3;
1>	if the LTM cell switch is triggered on the MCG:
2>	release the radio bearer(s) using the master key and the MCG logical channel(s) that were part of the UE configuration before this LTM cell switch procedure but not part of the LTM candidate configuration either indicated by lower layers or for the selected cell in accordance with 5.3.7.3, or the LTM reference configuration (in case the LTM candidate configuration does not include ltm-ConfigComplete);
1>	else, if the LTM cell switch is triggered on the SCG:
2>	release the radio bearer(s) using the secondary key and the SCG logical channel(s) that were part of the UE configuration before this LTM cell switch procedure but not part of the LTM candidate configuration either indicated by lower layers or for the selected cell in accordance with 5.3.7.3, or the LTM reference configuration (in case the LTM candidate configuration does not include ltm-ConfigComplete);
NOTE 2:	When ltm-ConfigComplete is not included for an LTM candidate configuration, before an LTM cell switch is triggered a UE implementation may generate and store an RRCReconfiguration message by applying the received LTM candidate configuration on top of the LTM reference configuration, and the stored RRCReconfiguration message is applied when the LTM cell switch is triggered. It is up to the UE to ensure that the RRC reconfiguration applied at the time of LTM cell switch is in accordance with the latest LTM reference configuration and LTM candidate configuration.
5.3.5.18.7	LTM configuration release
For the cell group for which the LTM configuration release procedure is triggered, the UE shall:
1>	remove the entry within VarLTM-ServingCellNoResetID;
1>	remove the entry within VarLTM-ServingCellUE-MeasuredTA-ID;
1>	release ltm-Config.
5.3.5.19	T348 expiry
The UE can apply the temporary UE capability restriction in accordance with the one indicated in the last transmission of the UEAssistanceInformation message including musim-CapRestriction, as specified in 5.7.4.3.
5.3.6	Counter check
5.3.6.1	General

Figure 5.3.6.1-1: Counter check procedure
The counter check procedure is used by the network to request the UE to verify the amount of data sent/ received on each DRB. More specifically, the UE is requested to check if, for each DRB, the most significant bits of the COUNT match with the values indicated by the network.
NOTE:	The procedure enables the network to detect packet insertion by an intruder (a 'man in the middle').
5.3.6.2	Initiation
The network initiates the procedure by sending a CounterCheck message.
NOTE:	The network may initiate the procedure when any of the COUNT values reaches a specific value.
5.3.6.3	Reception of the CounterCheck message by the UE
Upon receiving the CounterCheck message, the UE shall:
1>	for each DRB that is established:
2>	if no COUNT exists for a given direction (uplink or downlink) because it is a uni-directional bearer configured only for the other direction:
3>	assume the COUNT value to be 0 for the unused direction;
2>	if the drb-Identity is not included in the drb-CountMSB-InfoList:
3>	include the DRB in the drb-CountInfoList in the CounterCheckResponse message by including the drb-Identity, the count-Uplink and the count-Downlink set to the value of TX_NEXT – 1 and RX_NEXT – 1 (specified in TS 38.323 [5]), respectively;
2>	else if, for at least one direction, the most significant bits of the COUNT are different from the value indicated in the drb-CountMSB-InfoList:
3>	include the DRB in the drb-CountInfoList in the CounterCheckResponse message by including the drb-Identity, the count-Uplink and the count-Downlink set to the value of TX_NEXT – 1 and RX_NEXT – 1 (specified in TS 38.323 [5]), respectively;
1>	for each DRB that is included in the drb-CountMSB-InfoList in the CounterCheck message that is not established:
2>	include the DRB in the drb-CountInfoList in the CounterCheckResponse message by including the drb-Identity, the count-Uplink and the count-Downlink with the most significant bits set identical to the corresponding values in the drb-CountMSB-InfoList and the least significant bits set to zero;
1>	submit the CounterCheckResponse message to lower layers for transmission upon which the procedure ends.
5.3.7	RRC connection re-establishment
5.3.7.1	General
	
Figure 5.3.7.1-1: RRC connection re-establishment, successful
	

Figure 5.3.7.1-2: RRC re-establishment, fallback to RRC establishment, successful
The purpose of this procedure is to re-establish the RRC connection. A UE in RRC_CONNECTED, for which AS security has been activated with SRB2 and at least one DRB/multicast MRB setup or, for IAB and NCR, SRB2, may initiate the procedure in order to continue the RRC connection. The connection re-establishment succeeds if the network is able to find and verify a valid UE context or, if the UE context cannot be retrieved, and the network responds with an RRCSetup according to clause 5.3.3.4.
The network applies the procedure e.g as follows:
-	When AS security has been activated and the network retrieves or verifies the UE context:
-	to re-activate AS security without changing algorithms;
-	to re-establish and resume the SRB1;
-	When UE is re-establishing an RRC connection, and the network is not able to retrieve or verify the UE context:
-	to discard the stored AS Context and release all RBs and BH RLC channels and Uu Relay RLC channels;
-	to fallback to establish a new RRC connection.
If AS security has not been activated, the UE shall not initiate the procedure but instead moves to RRC_IDLE directly, with release cause 'other'. If AS security has been activated, but SRB2 and at least one DRB or multicast MRB or, for IAB and NCR, SRB2, are not setup, the UE does not initiate the procedure but instead moves to RRC_IDLE directly, with release cause 'RRC connection failure'.
5.3.7.2	Initiation
The UE initiates the procedure when one of the following conditions is met:
1>	upon detecting radio link failure of the MCG and t316 is not configured, in accordance with 5.3.10; or
1>	upon detecting radio link failure of the MCG while SCG transmission is suspended, in accordance with 5.3.10; or
1>	upon detecting radio link failure of the MCG while PSCell change or PSCell addition is ongoing, in accordance with 5.3.10; or
1>	upon detecting radio link failure of the MCG while the SCG is deactivated, in accordance with 5.3.10; or
1>	upon re-configuration with sync failure of the MCG, in accordance with clause 5.3.5.8.3; or
1>	upon mobility from NR failure, in accordance with clause 5.4.3.5; or
1>	upon integrity check failure indication from lower layers concerning SRB1 or SRB2, except if the integrity check failure is detected on the RRCReestablishment message; or
1>	upon an RRC connection reconfiguration failure, in accordance with clause 5.3.5.8.2; or
1>	upon detecting radio link failure for the SCG while MCG transmission is suspended, in accordance with clause 5.3.10.3 in NR-DC or in accordance with TS 36.331 [10] clause 5.3.11.3 in NE-DC; or
1>	upon reconfiguration with sync failure of the SCG while MCG transmission is suspended in accordance with clause 5.3.5.8.3; or
1>	upon SCG change failure while MCG transmission is suspended in accordance with TS 36.331 [10] clause 5.3.5.7a; or
1>	upon SCG configuration failure while MCG transmission is suspended in accordance with clause 5.3.5.8.2 in NR-DC or in accordance with TS 36.331 [10] clause 5.3.5.5 in NE-DC; or
1>	upon integrity check failure indication from SCG lower layers concerning SRB3 while MCG is suspended; or
1>	upon T316 expiry, in accordance with clause 5.7.3b.5; or
1>	upon detecting sidelink radio link failure by L2 U2N Remote UE in RRC_CONNECTED which is not configured with MP, in accordance with clause 5.8.9.3; or
1>	upon reception of NotificationMessageSidelink including indicationType by L2 U2N Remote UE in RRC_CONNECTED which is not configured with MP, in accordance with clause 5.8.9.10; or
1>	upon PC5 unicast link release for the serving L2 U2N Relay UE indicated by upper layer at L2 U2N Remote UE in RRC_CONNECTED which is not configured with MP while T301 is not running; or
1>	if MP is configured, upon detecting radio link failure of the MCG (i.e. direct path) in accordance with clause 5.3.10 while the transmission of indirect path is suspended as specified in 5.3.5.17; or
1>	if MP is configured, upon detecting radio link failure of the MCG (i.e. direct path) in accordance with 5.3.10 while MP indirect path addition or change is ongoing; or
1>	if MP is configured, upon detecting sidelink radio link failure of SL indirect path by L2 U2N Remote UE, in accordance with clause 5.8.9.3, while MCG transmission (i.e. direct path) is suspended as specified in clause 5.7.3b; or
1>	if MP is configured, upon reception of NotificationMessageSidelink including indicationType in accordance with clause 5.8.9.10, while MCG transmission (i.e. direct path) is suspended as specified in clause 5.7.3b; or
1>	if MP is configured, upon PC5 unicast link release indicated by upper layer at L2 U2N Remote UE, while MCG transmission (i.e. direct path) is suspended as specified in clause 5.7.3b; or
1>	if MP is configured, upon detecting the failure of N3C indirect path by N3C remote UE in accordance with clause 5.7.3c, while MCG transmission (i.e. direct path) is suspended.
NOTE 0:	It is up to UE implementation whether to initiate the procedure while T346g is running.
Upon initiation of the procedure, the UE shall:
1>	stop timer T310, if running;
1>	stop timer T312, if running;
1>	stop timer T304, if running;
1>	start timer T311;
1>	stop timer T316, if running;
1>	stop timer T421, if running;
1>	if UE is not configured with attemptCondReconfig; and
1>	if UE is not configured with attemptLTM-Switch:
2>	reset MAC;
2>	release spCellConfig, if configured;
2>	suspend all RBs, and BH RLC channels for IAB-MT, and Uu Relay RLC channels for L2 U2N Relay UE, except SRB0 and broadcast MRBs;
2>	release the MCG SCell(s), if configured;
2>	if MR-DC is configured:
3>	perform MR-DC release, as specified in clause 5.3.5.10;
2>	perform the LTM configuration release procedure for the MCG and the SCG as specified in clause 5.3.5.18.7;
2>	release delayBudgetReportingConfig, if configured and stop timer T342, if running;
2>	release overheatingAssistanceConfig, if configured and stop timer T345, if running;
2>	release idc-AssistanceConfig, if configured;
2>	release btNameList, if configured;
2>	release wlanNameList, if configured;
2>	release sensorNameList, if configured;
2>	release drx-PreferenceConfig for the MCG, if configured and stop timer T346a associated with the MCG, if running;
2>	release maxBW-PreferenceConfig for the MCG, if configured and stop timer T346b associated with the MCG, if running;
2>	release maxCC-PreferenceConfig for the MCG, if configured and stop timer T346c associated with the MCG, if running;
2>	release maxMIMO-LayerPreferenceConfig for the MCG, if configured and stop timer T346d associated with the MCG, if running;
2>	release minSchedulingOffsetPreferenceConfig for the MCG, if configured stop timer T346e associated with the MCG, if running;
2>	release rlm-RelaxationReportingConfig for the MCG, if configured and stop timer T346j associated with the MCG, if running;
2>	release bfd-RelaxationReportingConfig for the MCG, if configured and stop timer T346k associated with the MCG, if running;
2>	release releasePreferenceConfig, if configured stop timer T346f, if running;
2>	release onDemandSIB-Request if configured, and stop timer T350, if running;
2>	release referenceTimePreferenceReporting, if configured;
2>	release sl-AssistanceConfigNR, if configured;
2>	release obtainCommonLocation, if configured;
2>	release musim-GapAssistanceConfig, if configured and stop timer T346h, if running;
2>	release musim-GapPriorityAssistanceConfig, if configured;
2>	release musim-LeaveAssistanceConfig, if configured;
2>	release musim-CapabilityRestrictionConfig, if configured and stop timer T346n, if running;
2>	release ul-GapFR2-PreferenceConfig, if configured;
2>	release scg-DeactivationPreferenceConfig, if configured, and stop timer T346i, if running;
2>	release propDelayDiffReportConfig, if configured;
2>	release rrm-MeasRelaxationReportingConfig, if configured;
2>	release maxBW-PreferenceConfigFR2-2, if configured;
2>	release maxMIMO-LayerPreferenceConfigFR2-2, if configured;
2>	release minSchedulingOffsetPreferenceConfigExt, if configured;
2>	release multiRx-PreferenceReportingConfigFR2, if configured, and stop timer T346m, if running;
2>	release aerial-FlightPathAvailabilityConfig, if configured;
2>	release ul-TrafficInfoReportingConfig, if configured, and stop all instances of timer T346l, if running;
1>	release successHO-Config, if configured;
1>	release successPSCell-Config configured by the PCell, if configured;
1>	if any DAPS bearer is configured:
2>	reset the source MAC and release the source MAC configuration;
2>	for each DAPS bearer:
3>	release the RLC entity or entities as specified in TS 38.322 [4], clause 5.1.3, and the associated logical channel for the source SpCell;
3>	reconfigure the PDCP entity to release DAPS as specified in TS 38.323 [5];
2>	for each SRB:
3>	release the PDCP entity for the source SpCell;
3>	release the RLC entity as specified in TS 38.322 [4], clause 5.1.3, and the associated logical channel for the source SpCell;
2>	release the physical channel configuration for the source SpCell;
2>	discard the keys used in the source SpCell (the KgNB key, the KRRCenc key, the KRRCint key, the KUPint key and the KUPenc key), if any;
1>	release sl-L2RelayUE-Config for L2 U2N relay operation, if configured;
1>	release sl-L2RemoteUE-Config for L2 U2N relay operation, if configured;
1>	release the SRAP entity for L2 U2N relay operation, if configured;
1>	release ncr-FwdConfig, if configured;
1>	if the UE is NCR-MT:
2>	indicate to NCR-Fwd to cease forwarding;
1>	if SL indirect path is configured:
2>	release cell identity and relay UE ID configured in sl-IndirectPathAddChange;
2>	indicate upper layers to trigger PC5 unicast link release of the SL indirect path;
1>	if N3C indirect path is configured:
2>	release n3c-IndirectPathAddChange;
2> consider the non-3GPP connection is not used;
1>	if the UE is acting as a N3C relay UE:
2>	release n3c-IndirectPathConfigRelay;
2> consider the non-3GPP connection is not used;
1>	if the UE is acting as L2 U2N Remote UE and MP via L2 U2N Relay UE is not configured:
2>	if the PC5-RRC connection with the U2N Relay UE is determined to be released:
3>	indicate upper layers to trigger PC5 unicast link release;
3>	perform either cell selection in accordance with the cell selection process as specified in TS 38.304 [20], or relay selection as specified in clause 5.8.15.3, or both;
2>	else (i.e., maintain the PC5 RRC connection):
3>	consider the connected L2 U2N Relay UE as suitable and perform actions as specified in clause 5.3.7.3a;
NOTE 1:	It is up to Remote UE implementation whether to release or keep the current PC5 unicast link.
1> else:
2>	if the UE is capable of L2 U2N Remote UE:
3>	perform either cell selection as specified in TS 38.304 [20], or relay selection as specified in clause 5.8.15.3, or both;
2>	else:
3>	perform cell selection in accordance with the cell selection process as specified in TS 38.304 [20].
NOTE 2:	For L2 U2N Remote UE, if both a suitable cell and a suitable relay are available, the UE can select either one based on its implementation.
5.3.7.3	Actions following cell selection while T311 is running
Upon selecting a suitable NR cell, the UE shall:
1>	ensure having valid and up to date essential system information as specified in clause 5.2.2.2;
1>	stop timer T311;
1>	if T390 is running:
2>	stop timer T390 for all access categories;
2>	perform the actions as specified in 5.3.14.4;
1>	stop the relay (re)selection procedure, if ongoing;
1>	if the cell selection is triggered by detecting radio link failure of the MCG or re-configuration with sync failure of the MCG, except for an LTM cell switch procedure following cell selection performed while timer T311 was running, as specified in 5.3.7.3, or mobility from NR failure, and
1>	if attemptCondReconfig is configured; and
1>	if the selected cell is not configured with CondEventT1, or the selected cell is configured with CondEventT1 and leaving condition has not been fulfilled; and
1>	if the selected cell is one of the candidate cells for which the reconfigurationWithSync is included in the masterCellGroup in the MCG VarConditionalReconfig and the condExecutionCondPSCell is not configured for the corresponding condReconfigId in the MCG VarConditionalReconfig:
2>	if the UE supports RLF-Report for conditional handover, set the choCellId in the VarRLF-Report to the global cell identity, if available, otherwise to the physical cell identity and carrier frequency of the selected cell;
2>	apply the stored condRRCReconfig associated to the selected cell and perform actions as specified in 5.3.5.3;
NOTE 1:	It is left to network implementation to how to avoid keystream reuse in case of CHO based recovery after a failed handover without key change.
1>	if the cell selection is triggered by detecting radio link failure of the MCG or re-configuration with sync failure of the MCG for an LTM cell switch procedure triggered upon the indication by lower layers as specified in clause 5.3.5.18.6; and
1>	if attemptLTM-Switch is configured; and
1>	if the selected cell is one of the LTM candidate cells in the LTM-Candidate IE within ltm-Config associated with the MCG:
2>	perform the LTM cell switch procedure for the selected LTM candidate cell according to the actions specified in 5.3.5.18.6;
NOTE 2:	In case both attemptCondReconfig and attemptLTM-Switch are configured, it is left to the UE implementation which procedure to execute.
1>	else:
2>	if UE is configured with attemptCondReconfig; or
2>	if UE is configured with attemptLTM-Switch:
3>	reset MAC;
3>	release spCellConfig, if configured;
3>	release the MCG SCell(s), if configured;
3>	release delayBudgetReportingConfig, if configured and stop timer T342, if running;
3>	release overheatingAssistanceConfig , if configured and stop timer T345, if running;
3>	if MR-DC is configured:
4>	perform MR-DC release, as specified in clause 5.3.5.10;
3>	release idc-AssistanceConfig, if configured;
3>	release btNameList, if configured;
3>	release wlanNameList, if configured;
3>	release sensorNameList, if configured;
3>	release drx-PreferenceConfig for the MCG, if configured and stop timer T346a associated with the MCG, if running;
3>	release maxBW-PreferenceConfig for the MCG, if configured and stop timer T346b associated with the MCG, if running;
3>	release maxCC-PreferenceConfig for the MCG, if configured and stop timer T346c associated with the MCG, if running;
3>	release maxMIMO-LayerPreferenceConfig for the MCG, if configured and stop timer T346d associated with the MCG, if running;
3>	release minSchedulingOffsetPreferenceConfig for the MCG, if configured and stop timer T346e associated with the MCG, if running;
3>	release rlm-RelaxationReportingConfig for the MCG, if configured and stop timer T346j associated with the MCG, if running;
3>	release bfd-RelaxationReportingConfig for the MCG, if configured and stop timer T346k associated with the MCG, if running;
3>	release releasePreferenceConfig, if configured and stop timer T346f, if running;
3>	release onDemandSIB-Request if configured, and stop timer T350, if running;
3>	release referenceTimePreferenceReporting, if configured;
3>	release sl-AssistanceConfigNR, if configured;
3>	release obtainCommonLocation, if configured;
3>	release scg-DeactivationPreferenceConfig, if configured, and stop timer T346i, if running;
3>	release musim-GapAssistanceConfig, if configured and stop timer T346h, if running;
3>	release musim-GapPriorityAssistanceConfig, if configured;
3>	release musim-LeaveAssistanceConfig, if configured;
3>	release musim-CapabilityRestrictionConfig, if configured and stop timer T346n, if running;
3>	release propDelayDiffReportConfig, if configured;
3>	release ul-GapFR2-PreferenceConfig, if configured;
3>	release rrm-MeasRelaxationReportingConfig, if configured;
3>	release maxBW-PreferenceConfigFR2-2, if configured;
3>	release maxMIMO-LayerPreferenceConfigFR2-2, if configured;
3>	release minSchedulingOffsetPreferenceConfigExt, if configured;
3>	release aerial-FlightPathAvailabilityConfig, if configured;
3>	release ul-TrafficInfoReportingConfig, if configured, and stop all instances of timer T346l, if running;
3>	suspend all RBs, and BH RLC channels for the IAB-MT, except SRB0 and broadcast MRBs;
2>	remove all the entries within the MCG VarConditionalReconfig, if any;
2>	perform the LTM configuration release procedure for the MCG and the SCG as specified in clause 5.3.5.18.7;
2>	for each measId, if the associated reportConfig has a reportType set to condTriggerConfig:
3>	for the associated reportConfigId:
4>	remove the entry with the matching reportConfigId from the reportConfigList within the VarMeasConfig;
3>	if the associated measObjectId is only associated to a reportConfig with reportType set to condTriggerConfig:
4>	remove the entry with the matching measObjectId from the measObjectList within the VarMeasConfig;
3>	remove the entry with the matching measId from the measIdList within the VarMeasConfig;
2>	remove the servingSecurityCellSetId within the VarServingSecurityCellSetID, if any;
2>	release the PC5 RLC entity for SL-RLC0, if any;
2>	start timer T301;
2>	apply the default L1 parameter values as specified in corresponding physical layer specifications except for the parameters for which values are provided in SIB1;
2>	apply the default MAC Cell Group configuration as specified in 9.2.2;
2>	apply the CCCH configuration as specified in 9.1.1.2;
2>	apply the timeAlignmentTimerCommon included in SIB1;
2>	initiate transmission of the RRCReestablishmentRequest message in accordance with 5.3.7.4;
NOTE 2a:	This procedure applies also if the UE returns to the source PCell.
NOTE 3:	A L2 U2N Relay UE may re-establish (e.g. via release and establish) the SL-RLC0 and SL-RLC1 of the connected L2 U2N Remote UE(s).
Upon selecting an inter-RAT cell, the UE shall:
1>	perform the actions upon going to RRC_IDLE as specified in 5.3.11, with release cause 'RRC connection failure'.
5.3.7.3a	Actions following relay selection while T311 is running
Upon selecting a suitable L2 U2N Relay UE, the L2 U2N Remote UE shall:
1>	indicate to upper layer to trigger the PC5 unicast link establishment with the selected L2 U2N Relay UE, if a new L2 U2N Relay UE is selected;
1>	ensure having valid and up to date essential system information as specified in clause 5.2.2.2;
1>	stop timer T311;
1>	if T390 is running:
2>	stop timer T390 for all access categories;
2>	perform the actions as specified in 5.3.14.4;
1>	stop the cell selection procedure, if ongoing;
1>	start timer T301;
1>	release the RLC entity for SRB0, if any;
1>	establish a SRAP entity as specified in TS 38.351 [66], if no SRAP entity has been established;
1>	apply the specified configuration of SL-RLC0 as specified in 9.1.1.4;
1> apply the SDAP configuration and PDCP configuration as specified in 9.1.1.2 for SRB0;
1>	initiate transmission of the RRCReestablishmentRequest message in accordance with 5.3.7.4.
5.3.7.4	Actions related to transmission of RRCReestablishmentRequest message
The UE shall set the contents of RRCReestablishmentRequest message as follows:
1>	if the procedure was initiated due to radio link failure as specified in 5.3.10.3 or reconfiguration with sync failure as specified in 5.3.5.8.3; or
1>	if the procedure was initiated due to mobility from NR failure as specified in 5.4.3.5 and if voiceFallbackIndication is included in the MobilityFromNRCommand message:
2>	set the reestablishmentCellId in the VarRLF-Report to the global cell identity of the selected cell;
1>	set the ue-Identity as follows:
2>	set the c-RNTI to the C-RNTI used in the source PCell (reconfiguration with sync or mobility from NR failure) or used in the PCell in which the trigger for the re-establishment occurred (other cases);
2>	set the physCellId to the physical cell identity of the source PCell (reconfiguration with sync or mobility from NR failure) or of the PCell in which the trigger for the re-establishment occurred (other cases);
2>	set the shortMAC-I to the 16 least significant bits of the MAC-I calculated:
3>	over the ASN.1 encoded as per clause 8 (i.e., a multiple of 8 bits) VarShortMAC-Input;
3>	with the KRRCint key and integrity protection algorithm that was used in the source PCell (reconfiguration with sync or mobility from NR failure) or of the PCell in which the trigger for the re-establishment occurred (other cases); and
3>	with all input bits for COUNT, BEARER and DIRECTION set to binary ones;
1>	set the reestablishmentCause as follows:
2>	if the re-establishment procedure was initiated due to reconfiguration failure as specified in 5.3.5.8.2:
3>	set the reestablishmentCause to the value reconfigurationFailure;
2>	else if the re-establishment procedure was initiated due to reconfiguration with sync failure as specified in 5.3.5.8.3 (intra-NR handover failure) or 5.4.3.5 (inter-RAT mobility from NR failure):
3>	set the reestablishmentCause to the value handoverFailure;
2>	else:
3>	set the reestablishmentCause to the value otherFailure;
1>	re-establish PDCP for SRB1;
1>	if the UE is acting as L2 U2N Remote UE:
2>	establish or re-establish (e.g. via release and add) SL RLC entity for SRB1;
2>	apply the default configuration of SL-RLC1 as defined in 9.2.4 for SRB1;
2>	apply the default configuration of PDCP as defined in 9.2.1 for SRB1;
2>	apply the default configuration of SRAP as defined in 9.2.5 for SRB1;
1> else:
2>	re-establish RLC for SRB1;
2>	apply the default configuration defined in 9.2.1 for SRB1;
1>	configure lower layers to suspend integrity protection and ciphering for SRB1;
NOTE:	Ciphering is not applied for the subsequent RRCReestablishment message used to resume the connection. An integrity check is performed by lower layers, but merely upon request from RRC.
1>	resume SRB1;
1>	if ta-Report or ta-ReportATG is configured with value enabled and the UE supports TA reporting:
2>	indicate TA report initiation to lower layers;
1>	submit the RRCReestablishmentRequest message to lower layers for transmission.
5.3.7.5	Reception of the RRCReestablishment by the UE
The UE shall:
1>	stop timer T301;
1>	consider the current cell to be the PCell;
1>	update the KgNB key based on the current KgNB key or the NH, using the received nextHopChainingCount value, as specified in TS 33.501 [11];
1>	store the nextHopChainingCount value indicated in the RRCReestablishment message;
1>	derive the KRRCenc and KUPenc keys associated with the previously configured cipheringAlgorithm, as specified in TS 33.501 [11];
1>	derive the KRRCint and KUPint keys associated with the previously configured integrityProtAlgorithm, as specified in TS 33.501 [11].
1>	request lower layers to verify the integrity protection of the RRCReestablishment message, using the previously configured algorithm and the KRRCint key;
1>	if the integrity protection check of the RRCReestablishment message fails:
2>	perform the actions upon going to RRC_IDLE as specified in 5.3.11, with release cause 'RRC connection failure', upon which the procedure ends;
1>	configure lower layers to resume integrity protection for SRB1 using the previously configured algorithm and the KRRCint key immediately, i.e., integrity protection shall be applied to all subsequent messages received and sent by the UE, including the message used to indicate the successful completion of the procedure;
1>	configure lower layers to resume ciphering for SRB1 using the previously configured algorithm and, the KRRCenc key immediately, i.e., ciphering shall be applied to all subsequent messages received and sent by the UE, including the message used to indicate the successful completion of the procedure;
1>	release the measurement gap configuration indicated by the measGapConfig, if configured;
1>	release the MUSIM gap configuration indicated by the musim-GapConfig, if configured;
1>	release the FR2 UL gap configuration indicated by the ul-GapFR2-Config, if configured;
1>	perform the L2 U2N Remote UE configuration procedure in accordance with the received sl-L2RemoteUE-Config as specified in 5.3.5.16;
1>	for each application layer measurement configuration with appLayerIdleInactiveConfig configured:
2>	if the RPLMN is not included in plmn-IdentityList in VarAppLayerPLMN-ListConfig:
3>	forward the measConfigAppLayerId and inform upper layers about the release of the application layer measurement configuration;
3>	release the application layer measurement configuration including its fields in the UE variables VarAppLayerIdleConfig and VarAppLayerPLMN-ListConfig;
3>	discard any application layer measurement reports which were not yet fully submitted to lower layers for transmission;
3>	consider itself not to be configured to send application layer measurement reports for the measConfigAppLayerId;
1>	set the content of RRCReestablishmentComplete message as follows:
2>	if the UE has logged measurements available for NR and if the RPLMN is included in plmn-IdentityList stored in VarLogMeasReport; or
2>	if the UE has logged measurements available for NR and if the current registered SNPN identity is included in snpn-ConfigID-List stored in VarLogMeasReport:
3>	include the logMeasAvailable in the RRCReestablishmentComplete message;
3>	if Bluetooth measurement results are included in the logged measurements the UE has available for NR:
4>	include the logMeasAvailableBT in the RRCReestablishmentComplete message;
3>	if WLAN measurement results are included in the logged measurements the UE has available for NR:
4>	include the logMeasAvailableWLAN in the RRCReestablishmentComplete message;
2>	if the sigLoggedMeasType in VarLogMeasReport is included; or
2>	if the UE supports the override protection of the signalling based logged MDT for inter-RAT (i.e. LTE to NR), and if the sigLoggedMeasType in VarLogMeasReport of TS 36.331 [10] is included:
3>	if T330 timer is running (associated to the logged measurement configuration for NR or for LTE):
4>	set sigLogMeasConfigAvailable to true in the RRCReestablishmentComplete message;
3>	else:
4>	if the UE has logged measurements in VarLogMeasReport or in VarLogMeasReport of TS 36.331 [10]:
5>	set sigLogMeasConfigAvailable to false in the RRCReestablishmentComplete message;
2>	if the UE has connection establishment failure or connection resume failure information available in VarConnEstFailReport or VarConnEstFailReportList and if the RPLMN is equal to plmn-Identity stored in VarConnEstFailReport or in at least one of the entries of VarConnEstFailReportList; or
2>	if the UE supports multiple CEF report and if the UE has connection establishment failure information or connection resume failure information available in VarConnEstFailReport or VarConnEstFailReportList and if the registered SNPN identity is equal to snpn-Identity in networkIdentity stored in VarConnEstFailReport or any entry of VarConnEstFailReportList:
3>	include connEstFailInfoAvailable in the RRCReestablishmentComplete message;
2>	if the UE has radio link failure or handover failure information available in VarRLF-Report and if the RPLMN is included in plmn-IdentityList stored in VarRLF-Report; or
2>	if the UE has radio link failure or handover failure information available in VarRLF-Report of TS 36.331 [10] and if the UE is capable of cross-RAT RLF reporting and if the RPLMN is included in plmn-IdentityList stored in VarRLF-Report of TS 36.331 [10]; or
2>	if the UE has radio link failure or handover failure information available in VarRLF-Report and if the current registered SNPN identity is included in snpn-IdentityList stored in VarRLF-Report:
3>	include rlf-InfoAvailable in the RRCReestablishmentComplete message;
2>	if the UE has successful handover information available in VarSuccessHO-Report and if the RPLMN is included in plmn-IdentityList stored in VarSuccessHO-Report; or
2>	if the UE has successful handover information available in VarSuccessHO-Report and if the current registered SNPN identity is included in snpn-IdentityList stored in the VarSuccessHO-Report:
3>	include successHO-InfoAvailable in the RRCReestablishmentComplete message;
2>	if the UE has successful PSCell change or addition information available in VarSuccessPSCell-Report and if the RPLMN is included in plmn-IdentityList stored in VarSuccessPSCell-Report; or
2>	if the UE has successful PSCell change or addition information available in VarSuccessPSCell-Report and if the current registered SNPN identity is included in snpn-IdentityList stored in the VarSuccessPSCell-Report:
3>	include successPSCell-InfoAvailable in the RRCReestablishmentComplete message;
2>	if the UE has flight path information available:
3>	include flightPathInfoAvailable;
2>	if the UE has at least one stored application layer measurement configuration with appLayerIdleInactiveConfig configured which has not been successfully transmitted since entering RRC_CONNECTED state:
3>	include measConfigReportAppLayerAvailable in the RRCReestablishmentComplete message;
2>	if SIB1 contains musim-CapRestrictionAllowed:
3>	if supported, include the musim-CapRestrictionInd in the RRCReestablishmentComplete message upon determining it has temporary capability restriction;
NOTE:	Upon reception of musim-CapRestrictionInd in RRCReestablishmentComplete, it is up to network implementation to configure the UE with a limited configuration that is used until network sends RRCReconfiguration based on the actual restricted UE capabilities included in UEAssistanceInformation.
1>	submit the RRCReestablishmentComplete message to lower layers for transmission;
1>	if SIB21 is provided by the PCell; or
1>	if nonServingCellMII is provided in SIB1 by the PCell:
2>	if the UE initiated transmission of an MBSInterestIndication message during the last 1 second preceding detection of radio link failure:
3>	initiate transmission of an MBSInterestIndication message in accordance with 5.9.4;
1>	the procedure ends.
5.3.7.6	T311 expiry
Upon T311 expiry, the UE shall:
1>	if the procedure was initiated due to radio link failure or handover failure:
2>	set the noSuitableCellFound in the VarRLF-Report to true;
1>	perform the actions upon going to RRC_IDLE as specified in 5.3.11, with release cause 'RRC connection failure'.
5.3.7.7	T301 expiry or selected cell/L2 U2N Relay UE no longer suitable
The UE shall:
1>	if timer T301 expires; or
1>	if the selected cell becomes no longer suitable according to the cell selection criteria as specified in TS 38.304 [20]; or
1>	if the (re)selected L2 U2N Relay UE becomes unsuitable; or
1>	upon reception of NotificationMessageSidelink indicating relayUE-HO or relayUE-CellReselection; or
1>	upon PC5 unicast link release indicated by upper layer at L2 U2N Remote UE:
2>	perform the actions upon going to RRC_IDLE as specified in 5.3.11, with release cause 'RRC connection failure'.
5.3.7.8	Reception of the RRCSetup by the UE
The UE shall:
1>	perform the RRC connection establishment procedure as specified in 5.3.3.4.
5.3.8	RRC connection release
5.3.8.1	General

Figure 5.3.8.1-1: RRC connection release, successful
The purpose of this procedure is:
-	to release the RRC connection, which includes the release of the established radio bearers (except for broadcast MRBs), BH RLC channels, Uu Relay RLC channels, PC5 Relay RLC channels as well as all radio resources; or
-	to suspend the RRC connection only if SRB2 and at least one DRB or multicast MRB or, for IAB and NCR, SRB2, are setup, which includes the suspension of the established radio bearers (except for broadcast MRBs).
5.3.8.2	Initiation
The network initiates the RRC connection release procedure to transit a UE in RRC_CONNECTED to RRC_IDLE; or to transit a UE in RRC_CONNECTED to RRC_INACTIVE only if SRB2 and at least one DRB or multicast MRB or, for IAB and NCR, SRB2, is setup in RRC_CONNECTED; or to transit a UE in RRC_INACTIVE back to RRC_INACTIVE when the UE tries to resume (for resuming a suspended RRC connection, for RNA Update or for initiating SDT); or to transit a UE in RRC_INACTIVE to RRC_IDLE when the UE tries to resume (for resuming of a suspended RRC connection, for RNA Update or for initiating SDT). The procedure can also be used to release and redirect a UE to another frequency.
5.3.8.3	Reception of the RRCRelease by the UE
The UE shall:
1>	delay the following actions defined in this clause 60 ms from the moment the RRCRelease message was received or optionally when lower layers indicate that the receipt of the RRCRelease message has been successfully acknowledged, whichever is earlier;
NOTE 0:	When the RRCRelease message is received on a HARQ process with disabled HARQ feedback, and when STATUS reporting, as defined in TS 38.322 [4], has not been triggered for a logical channel associated with the SRB1, the lower layers can be considered to have indicated that the receipt of the RRCRelease message has been successfully acknowledged.
1>	stop timer T380, if running;
1>	stop timer T320, if running;
1>	if timer T316 is running;
2>	stop timer T316;
2>	if the UE supports RLF-Report for fast MCG recovery procedure as specified in 38.306 [26]:
3>	set the elapsedTimeT316 in the VarRLF-Report to the value of the elapsed time of the timer T316;
3>	set the pSCellId in the VarRLF-Report to the global cell identity of the PSCell, if available, otherwise to the physical cell identity and carrier frequency of the PSCell;
2>	else:
3>	clear the information included in VarRLF-Report, if any;
1>	stop timer T350, if running;
1>	stop timer T346g, if running;
1>	stop timer T348, if running;
1>	if the AS security is not activated:
2>	ignore any field included in RRCRelease message except waitTime;
2>	perform the actions upon going to RRC_IDLE as specified in 5.3.11 with the release cause 'other' upon which the procedure ends;
1>	if the RRCRelease message includes redirectedCarrierInfo indicating redirection to eutra:
2>	if cnType is included:
3>	after the cell selection, indicate the available CN Type(s) and the received cnType to upper layers;
NOTE 1:	Handling the case if the E-UTRA cell selected after the redirection does not support the core network type specified by the cnType, is up to UE implementation.
2>	if voiceFallbackIndication is included:
3>	consider the RRC connection release was for EPS fallback for IMS voice (see TS 23.502 [43]);
1>	if the RRCRelease message includes the cellReselectionPriorities:
2>	store the cell reselection priority information provided by the cellReselectionPriorities;
2>	if the t320 is included:
3>	start timer T320, with the timer value set according to the value of t320;
1>	else:
2>	apply the cell reselection priority information broadcast in the system information;
1>	if deprioritisationReq is included and the UE supports RRC connection release with deprioritisation:
2>	start or restart timer T325 with the timer value set to the deprioritisationTimer signalled;
2>	store the deprioritisationReq until T325 expiry/stop;
NOTE 1a:	The UE stores the deprioritisation request irrespective of any cell reselection absolute priority assignments (by dedicated or common signalling) and regardless of RRC connections in NR or other RATs unless specified otherwise.
1>	if the RRCRelease includes the measIdleConfig:
2>	if T331 is running:
3> stop timer T331;
3>	perform the actions as specified in 5.7.8.3;
2>	if the measIdleConfig is set to setup:
3>	store the received measIdleDuration in VarMeasIdleConfig;
3>	start timer T331 with the value set to measIdleDuration;
3>	if the measIdleConfig contains measIdleCarrierListNR:
4>	store the received measIdleCarrierListNR in VarMeasIdleConfig;
3>	if the measIdleConfig contains measIdleCarrierListEUTRA:
4>	store the received measIdleCarrierListEUTRA in VarMeasIdleConfig;
3>	if the measIdleConfig contains validityAreaList:
4>	store the received validityAreaList in VarMeasIdleConfig;
3>	if the measIdleConfig contains measReselectionCarrierListNR:
4>	store the received measReselectionCarrierListNR in VarMeasReselectionConfig;
3>	if the measIdleConfig contains measReselectionValidityDuration:
4>	store the received measReselectionValidityDuration in VarMeasReselectionConfig;
3>	if the measIdleConfig contains measIdleValidityDuration:
4>	store the received measIdleValidityDuration in VarEnhMeasIdleConfig;
1>	if the RRCRelease includes suspendConfig:
2>	reset MAC and release the default MAC Cell Group configuration, if any;
2>	apply the received suspendConfig except the received nextHopChainingCount;
2>	if the sdt-Config is configured:
3>	for each of the DRB in the sdt-DRB-List:
4>	consider the DRB to be configured for SDT;
3>	if sdt-SRB2-Indication is configured:
4>	consider the SRB2 to be configured for SDT;
3>	for each RLC bearer (except those associated with broadcast MRBs and multicast MRBs) that is not suspended:
4>	re-establish the RLC entity as specified in TS 38.322 [4];
3>	for SRB2 (if it is resumed) and for SRB1:
4>	trigger the PDCP entity to perform SDU discard as specified in TS 38.323 [5];
3>	if sdt-MAC-PHY-CG-Config is configured:
4>	configure the PCell with the configured grant resources for SDT and instruct the MAC entity to start the cg-SDT-TimeAlignmentTimer;
2>	if srs-PosRRC-Inactive is configured:
3>	apply the SRS for positioning configuration in RRC_INACTIVE and instruct MAC to start the inactivePosSRS-TimeAlignmentTimer;
2>	if srs-PosRRC-InactiveValidityAreaNonPreConfig is set to setup:
3>	apply the SRS for positioning configuration in RRC_INACTIVE and instruct MAC to start the inactivePosSRS-ValidityAreaTAT;
2>	else if srs-PosRRC-InactiveValidityAreaNonPreConfig is set to release:
3>	release srs-PosRRC-InactiveValidityAreaNonPreConfig, if available;
2>	if srs-PosRRC-InactiveValidityAreaPreConfigList is set to setup:
3>	store srs-PosRRC-InactiveValidityAreaPreConfigList and perform actions as specified in clause 5.7.20;
2>	else if srs-PosRRC-InactiveValidityAreaPreConfigList is set to release:
3>	remove all srs-PosRRC-InactiveValidityAreaPreConfigList, if available;
NOTE 1b:	The Network should provide full configuration to UE for SRS for Positioning in RRC_INACTIVE.
2>	perform the LTM configuration release procedure for the MCG and the SCG as specified in clause 5.3.5.18.7;
2>	remove all the entries within the MCG and the SCG VarConditionalReconfig, if any;
2>	remove the servingSecurityCellSetId within the VarServingSecurityCellSetID, if any;
2>	for each measId of the MCG measConfig and for each measId of the SCG measConfig, if configured, if the associated reportConfig has a reportType set to condTriggerConfig:
3>	for the associated reportConfigId:
4>	remove the entry with the matching reportConfigId from the reportConfigList within the VarMeasConfig;
3>	if the associated measObjectId is only associated to a reportConfig with reportType set to condTriggerConfig:
4>	remove the entry with the matching measObjectId from the measObjectList within the VarMeasConfig;
3>	remove the entry with the matching measId from the measIdList within the VarMeasConfig;
2>	if the UE is NCR-MT and if ncr-FwdConfig is configured:
3>	if the ncr-FwdConfig includes periodic forwarding resource configuration:
4>	indicate to NCR-Fwd to continue forwarding only in accordance with the configured periodic forwarding resource set(s);
3>	else:
4>	indicate to NCR-Fwd to cease forwarding;
2>	if the UE is acting as L2 U2N Remote UE and is not configured with MP:
3>	if the PC5-RRC connection with the U2N Relay UE is determined to be released:
4>	indicate upper layers to trigger PC5 unicast link release;
3>	else (i.e., maintain the PC5 RRC connection):
4>	establish or re-establish (e.g. via release and add) SL RLC entity for SRB1;
2>	else:
3>	re-establish RLC entities for SRB1;
2>	for each application layer measurement configuration with appLayerIdleInactiveConfig configured:
3>	forward the measConfigAppLayerId and inform upper layers about the release of the RAN visible application layer measurement configuration;
3>	discard any RAN visible application layer measurement reports received from upper layers;
3>	initiate the procedure in 5.5b.1.2;
2>	if the RRCRelease message with suspendConfig was received in response to an RRCResumeRequest or an RRCResumeRequest1:
3>	stop the timer T319 if running;
3>	in the stored UE Inactive AS context:
4>	replace the KgNB and KRRCint keys with the current KgNB and KRRCint keys;
4>	replace the nextHopChainingCount with the value of nextHopChainingCount received in the RRCRelease message;
4>	replace the cellIdentity with the cellIdentity of the cell the UE has received the RRCRelease message;
4>	if the suspendConfig contains the sl-UEIdentityRemote (i.e. the UE is a L2 U2N Remote UE):
5>	replace the C-RNTI with the value of the sl-UEIdentityRemote;
5>	replace the physical cell identity with the value of the sl-PhysCellId in sl-ServingCellInfo contained in the discovery message received from the connected L2 U2N Relay UE;
4> else:
5>	replace the C-RNTI with the C-RNTI used in the cell (see TS 38.321 [3]) the UE has received the RRCRelease message;
5>	replace the physical cell identity with the physical cell identity of the cell the UE has received the RRCRelease message;
3>	replace the nextHopChainingCount with the value associated with the current KgNB;
3>	stop the timer T319a if running and consider SDT procedure is not ongoing;
2>	else:
3>	store in the UE Inactive AS Context the nextHopChainingCount received in the RRCRelease message, the current KgNB and KRRCint keys, the ROHC state, the EHC context(s), the UDC state, the stored QoS flow to DRB mapping rules, the application layer measurement configuration, the C-RNTI used in the source PCell, the cellIdentity and the physical cell identity of the source PCell, the ncr-FwdConfig (if configured), the spCellConfigCommon within ReconfigurationWithSync of the NR PSCell (if configured) and all other parameters configured except for:
-	parameters within ReconfigurationWithSync of the PCell;
-	parameters within ReconfigurationWithSync of the NR PSCell, if configured;
-	parameters within MobilityControlInfoSCG of the E-UTRA PSCell, if configured;
-	servingCellConfigCommonSIB;
-	sl-L2RelayUE-Config, if configured;
-	sl-L2RemoteUE-Config, if configured;
-	aerial-Config, if configured;
-	cellDTX-DRX-Config, if configured;
NOTE 1c:	suspendConfig is not stored as part of UE Inactive AS Context, except for the fields explicitly specified.
3>	store any previously or subsequently received application layer measurement report containers for which the successful transmission of the message or at least one segment of the message has not been confirmed by lower layers;
NOTE 2:	NR sidelink communication/discovery/positioning related configurations and logged measurement configuration are not stored as UE Inactive AS Context, when UE enters RRC_INACTIVE.
2>	suspend all SRB(s) and DRB(s), except SRB0 and broadcast MRBs;
2>	suspend all multicast MRB(s) associated with multicast session(s) not configured for reception in RRC_INACTIVE;
2>	indicate PDCP suspend to lower layers of all DRBs and multicast MRBs associated with multicast session(s) not configured for reception in RRC_INACTIVE;
2>	release Uu Relay RLC channel(s), if configured;
2>	release PC5 Relay RLC channel(s), if configured;
2>	release the SRAP entity, if configured;
NOTE 2a:	A L2 U2N Relay UE may re-establish the SL-RLC0, SL-RLC1 and SRAP entity after release.
2>	if SL indirect path is configured:
3>	release cell identity and relay UE ID configured in sl-IndirectPathAddChange;
3>	indicate upper layers to trigger PC5 unicast link release of the SL indirect path;
2>	if N3C indirect path is configured:
3>	release n3c-IndirectPathAddChange;
3>	consider the non-3GPP connection is not used;
2>	if the UE is acting as a N3C relay UE:
3>	release n3c-IndirectPathConfigRelay;
3>	consider the non-3GPP connection is not used;
2>	if the t380 is included:
3>	start timer T380, with the timer value set to t380;
2>	if the RRCRelease message is including the waitTime:
3>	start timer T302 with the value set to the waitTime;
3>	inform upper layers that access barring is applicable for all access categories except categories '0' and '2';
2>	if T390 is running:
3>	stop timer T390 for all access categories;
3>	perform the actions as specified in 5.3.14.4;
2>	indicate the suspension of the RRC connection to upper layers;
2>	if the UE is capable of L2 U2N Remote UE:
3>	enter RRC_INACTIVE, and perform either cell selection as specified in TS 38.304 [20], or relay selection as specified in clause 5.8.15.3, or both;
2>	else:
3>	enter RRC_INACTIVE and perform cell selection as specified in TS 38.304 [20];
2>	if the suspendConfig includes resumeIndication:
3> perform the actions as if the UE received Paging message with the ue-Identity included in the PagingRecord matching the UE's stored fullI-RNTI, as specified in clause 5.3.2.3;
2>	if the multicastConfigInactive is set to setup:
3>	if the multicast PTM configuration is provided for at least one multicast session for which the UE is not indicated to stop monitoring the G-RNTI and the UE selects the same cell as the one on which the multicast session was configured in RRC_CONNECTED:
4>	apply the multicast PTM configuration as specified in 5.10.3;
4>	if multicast MCCH is present:
5>	monitor the Multicast MCCH-RNTI as specified in 5.10.1.2;
1>	else:
2>	perform the actions upon going to RRC_IDLE as specified in 5.3.11, with the release cause 'other'.
NOTE 3:	Whether to release the PC5 unicast link is left to L2 U2N Remote UE's implementation.
NOTE 4:	It is left to UE implementation whether to stop T430, if running, when going to RRC_INACTIVE.
5.3.8.4	T320 expiry
The UE shall:
1>	if T320 expires:
2>	if stored, discard the cell reselection priority information provided by the cellReselectionPriorities or inherited from another RAT;
2>	apply the cell reselection priority information broadcast in the system information.
5.3.8.5	UE actions upon the expiry of DataInactivityTimer
Upon receiving the expiry of DataInactivityTimer from lower layers while in RRC_CONNECTED, the UE shall:
1>	perform the actions upon going to RRC_IDLE as specified in 5.3.11, with release cause 'RRC connection failure'.
5.3.8.6	T346g expiry
The UE shall:
1>	if T346g expires:
2>	perform the actions upon going to RRC_IDLE as specified in 5.3.11, with release cause 'other'.
5.3.9	RRC connection release requested by upper layers
5.3.9.1	General
The purpose of this procedure is to release the RRC connection. Access to the current PCell may be barred as a result of this procedure.
5.3.9.2	Initiation
The UE initiates the procedure when upper layers request the release of the RRC connection as specified in TS 24.501 [23]. The UE shall not initiate the procedure for power saving purposes.
The UE shall:
1>	if the upper layers indicate barring of the PCell:
2>	treat the PCell used prior to entering RRC_IDLE as barred according to TS 38.304 [20];
1>	perform the actions upon going to RRC_IDLE as specified in 5.3.11, with release cause 'other'.
5.3.10	Radio link failure related actions
5.3.10.1	Detection of physical layer problems in RRC_CONNECTED
The UE shall:
1>	if any DAPS bearer is configured, upon receiving N310 consecutive "out-of-sync" indications for the source SpCell from lower layers and T304 is running:
2>	start timer T310 for the source SpCell.
1>	upon receiving N310 consecutive "out-of-sync" indications for the SpCell from lower layers while neither T300, T301, T304, T311, T316 nor T319 are running:
2>	start timer T310 for the corresponding SpCell.
5.3.10.2	Recovery of physical layer problems
Upon receiving N311 consecutive "in-sync" indications for the SpCell from lower layers while T310 is running, the UE shall:
1>	stop timer T310 for the corresponding SpCell.
1>	stop timer T312 for the corresponding SpCell, if running.
NOTE 1:	In this case, the UE maintains the RRC connection without explicit signalling, i.e. the UE maintains the entire radio resource configuration.
NOTE 2:	Periods in time where neither "in-sync" nor "out-of-sync" is reported by L1 do not affect the evaluation of the number of consecutive "in-sync" or "out-of-sync" indications.
5.3.10.3	Detection of radio link failure
The UE shall:
1>	if any DAPS bearer is configured and T304 is running:
2>	upon T310 expiry in source SpCell; or
2>	upon random access problem indication from source MCG MAC; or
2>	upon indication from source MCG RLC that the maximum number of retransmissions has been reached; or
2>	upon consistent uplink LBT failure indication from source MCG MAC:
3>	consider radio link failure to be detected for the source MCG i.e. source RLF;
3>	suspend the transmission and reception of all DRBs and multicast MRBs in the source MCG;
3>	reset MAC for the source MCG;
3>	release the source connection.
1>	else:
2>	during a DAPS handover: the following only applies for the target PCell;
2>	upon T310 expiry in PCell; or
2>	upon T312 expiry in PCell; or
2>	upon random access problem indication from MCG MAC while neither T300, T301, T304, T311 nor T319 are running and SDT procedure is not ongoing; or
2>	upon indication from MCG RLC that the maximum number of retransmissions has been reached while SDT procedure is not ongoing; or
2>	if connected as an IAB-node, upon BH RLF indication received on BAP entity from the MCG; or
2>	upon consistent uplink LBT failure indication from MCG MAC while T304 is not running:
3>	if the indication is from MCG RLC and CA duplication is configured and activated for MCG, and for the corresponding logical channel allowedServingCells only includes SCell(s):
4>	initiate the failure information procedure as specified in 5.7.5 to report RLC failure.
3>	else:
4>	consider radio link failure to be detected for the MCG, i.e. MCG RLF;
4>	discard any segments of segmented RRC messages stored according to 5.7.6.3;
NOTE 1:	Void.
4>	if AS security has not been activated:
5>	perform the actions upon going to RRC_IDLE as specified in 5.3.11, with release cause 'other';-
4>	else if AS security has been activated but SRB2 and at least one DRB or multicast MRB or, for IAB and NCR, SRB2, have not been setup:
5>	store the radio link failure information in the VarRLF-Report as described in clause 5.3.10.5;
5>	perform the actions upon going to RRC_IDLE as specified in 5.3.11, with release cause 'RRC connection failure';
4>	else:
5>	store the radio link failure information in the VarRLF-Report as described in clause 5.3.10.5;
5>	if MP is configured:
6>	if T316 is configured, and MP indirect path transmission is not suspended; and
6>	if neither MP indirect path change nor MP indirect path addition is ongoing:
7>	initiate the MCG failure information procedure as specified in 5.7.3b to report MCG radio link failure.
6>	else:
7>	initiate the connection re-establishment procedure as specified in 5.3.7.
5>	else:
6>	if the UE supports RLF-Report for fast MCG recovery procedure and if T316 is configured:
7>	if the SCG is deactivated at the moment of detecting RLF in the MCG:
8>	set the mcg-RecoveryFailureCause in the VarRLF-Report to scg-Deactivated;
8>	set the pSCellId in the VarRLF-Report to the global cell identity of the PSCell, if available, otherwise to the physical cell identity and carrier frequency of the PSCell;
7>	else if SCG transmission is suspended at the moment of detecting RLF in the MCG:
8>	set the pSCellId in the VarRLF-Report to the global cell identity of the PSCell, if available, otherwise to the physical cell identity and carrier frequency of the PSCell;
8>	set the scg-FailureCause value in the VarRLF-Report according to 5.7.3.5;
8>	set the elapsedTimeSCG-Failure in the VarRLF-Report to the time elapsed between SCG failure and the MCG failure;
6>	if T316 is configured; and
6>	if SCG transmission is not suspended; and
6>	if the SCG is not deactivated; and
6>	if neither PSCell change nor PSCell addition is ongoing (i.e. timer T304 for the NR PSCell is not running in case of NR-DC or timer T307 of the E-UTRA PSCell is not running as specified in TS 36.331 [10], clause 5.3.10.10, in NE-DC):
7>	initiate the MCG failure information procedure as specified in 5.7.3b to report MCG radio link failure.
6>	else:
7>	initiate the connection re-establishment procedure as specified in 5.3.7.
A L2/L3 U2N Relay UE shall:
1>	upon detecting radio link failure:
2>	either indicate to upper layers (to trigger PC5 unicast link release) or send NotificationMessageSidelink to the connected L2/L3 U2N Remote UE(s) in accordance with 5.8.9.10.
A N3C Relay UE shall:
1>	upon detecting radio link failure:
2>	indicates to the associated N3C remote UE via the Non-3GPP Connection.
NOTE 2:	How the N3C Relay UE indicates Uu RLF on the Non-3GPP Connection is left to implementation.
The UE shall:
1>	upon T310 expiry in PSCell; or
1>	upon T312 expiry in PSCell; or
1>	upon random access problem indication from SCG MAC; or
1>	upon indication from SCG RLC that the maximum number of retransmissions has been reached; or
1>	if connected as an IAB-node, upon BH RLF indication received on BAP entity from the SCG; or
1>	upon consistent uplink LBT failure indication from SCG MAC:
2>	if the indication is from SCG RLC and CA duplication is configured and activated for SCG, and for the corresponding logical channel allowedServingCells only includes SCell(s):
3>	initiate the failure information procedure as specified in 5.7.5 to report RLC failure.
2>	else:
3>	consider radio link failure to be detected for the SCG, i.e. SCG RLF;
3>	if the SCG is deactivated:
4>	stop radio link monitoring on the SCG;
4>	indicate to lower layers to stop beam failure detection on the PSCell;
3>	if MCG transmission is not suspended:
4>	initiate the SCG failure information procedure as specified in 5.7.3 to report SCG radio link failure.
3>	else:
4>	if the UE is in NR-DC:
5>	if the UE supports RLF-Report for fast MCG recovery procedure and if the UE detected SCG failure while the timer T316 was running:
6>	set the pSCellId in the VarRLF-Report to the global cell identity of the PSCell, if available, otherwise to the physical cell identity and carrier frequency of the PSCell;
6>	set the scg-FailureCause in the VarRLF-Report value according to 5.7.3.5;
6>	set the elapsedTimeSCG-Failure in the VarRLF-Report to the time elapsed between MCG failure and the SCG failure;
6>	include scg-FailedAfterMCG;
5>	initiate the connection re-establishment procedure as specified in 5.3.7;
4>	else (the UE is in (NG)EN-DC):
5>	initiate the connection re-establishment procedure as specified in TS 36.331 [10], clause 5.3.7;
5.3.10.4	RLF cause determination
The UE shall set the rlf-Cause in the VarRLF-Report as follows:
1>	if the UE declares radio link failure due to T310 expiry:
2>	set the rlf-Cause as t310-Expiry;
1>	else if the UE declares radio link failure due to the random access problem indication from MCG MAC:
2>	if the random access procedure was initiated for beam failure recovery:
3>	set the rlf-Cause as beamFailureRecoveryFailure;
2>	else:
3>	set the rlf-Cause as randomAccessProblem;
1>	else if the UE declares radio link failure due to the reaching of maximum number of retransmissions from the MCG RLC:
2>	set the rlf-Cause as rlc-MaxNumRetx;
1>	else if the UE declares radio link failure due to consistent uplink LBT failures:
2>	set the rlf-Cause as lbtFailure;
1>	else if the IAB-MT declares radio link failure due to the reception of a BH RLF indication on BAP entity:
2>	set the rlf-Cause as bh-rlfRecoveryFailure.
1>	else if the UE declares radio link failure due to T312 expiry:
2>	set the rlf-Cause as t312-Expiry;
5.3.10.5	RLF report content determination
The UE shall determine the content in the VarRLF-Report as follows:
1>	clear the information included in VarRLF-Report, if any;
1>	if the UE is not in SNPN access mode, set the plmn-IdentityList to include the list of EPLMNs stored by the UE (i.e. including the RPLMN);
1>	else if the UE is in SNPN access mode, set the snpn-IdentityList to include the list of equivalent SNPNs stored by the UE (i.e., including the registered SNPN identity);
1>	set the measResultLastServCell to include the cell level RSRP, RSRQ and the available SINR, of the source PCell (in case HO failure) or PCell (in case RLF) based on the available SSB and CSI-RS measurements collected up to the moment the UE detected failure;
1>	if measRSSI-ReportConfig is configured for the measObject indicated as the servingCellMO of the source PCell (in case HO failure) or PCell (in case of RLF), set the measResultLastServCellRSSI to the linear average of the available RSSI sample value(s) provided by lower layers for the frequency of the source PCell (in case HO failure) or PCell (in case of RLF) up to the moment the UE detected the failure;
1>	if the SS/PBCH block-based measurement quantities are available:
2>	set the rsIndexResults in measResultLastServCell to include all the available measurement quantities of the source PCell (in case HO failure) or PCell (in case RLF), ordered such that the highest SS/PBCH block RSRP is listed first if SS/PBCH block RSRP measurement results are available, otherwise the highest SS/PBCH block RSRQ is listed first if SS/PBCH block RSRQ measurement results are available, otherwise the highest SS/PBCH block SINR is listed first, based on the available SS/PBCH block based measurements collected up to the moment the UE detected failure;
1>	if the CSI-RS based measurement quantities are available:
2>	set the rsIndexResults in measResultLastServCell to include all the available measurement quantities of the source PCell (in case HO failure) or PCell (in case RLF), ordered such that the highest CSI-RS RSRP is listed first if CSI-RS RSRP measurement results are available, otherwise the highest CSI-RS RSRQ is listed first if CSI-RS RSRQ measurement results are available, otherwise the highest CSI-RS SINR is listed first, based on the available CSI-RS based measurements collected up to the moment the UE detected failure;
1>	for each of the configured measObjectNR in which measurements are available:
2>	if the SS/PBCH block-based measurement quantities are available:
3>	set the measResultListNR in measResultNeighCells to include all the available measurement quantities of the best measured cells, other than the source PCell (in case HO failure) or PCell (in case RLF), ordered such that the cell with highest SS/PBCH block RSRP is listed first if SS/PBCH block RSRP measurement results are available, otherwise the cell with highest SS/PBCH block RSRQ is listed first if SS/PBCH block RSRQ measurement results are available, otherwise the cell with highest SS/PBCH block SINR is listed first, based on the available SS/PBCH block based measurements collected up to the moment the UE detected failure;
3>	for each neighbour cell included, include the optional fields that are available;
NOTE 0a:	For the neighboring cells included in measResultListNR in measResultNeighCells ordered based on the SS/PBCH block measurement quantities, UE also includes the CSI-RS based measurement quantities, if available.
2>	if the CSI-RS based measurement quantities are available:
3>	set the measResultListNR in measResultNeighCells to include all the available measurement quantities of the best measured cells, other than the source PCell (in case HO failure) or PCell (in case RLF), ordered such that the cell with highest CSI-RS RSRP is listed first if CSI-RS RSRP measurement results are available, otherwise the cell with highest CSI-RS RSRQ is listed first if CSI-RS RSRQ measurement results are available, otherwise the cell with highest CSI-RS SINR is listed first, based on the available CSI-RS based measurements collected up to the moment the UE detected radio link failure;
3>	for each neighbour cell included, include the optional fields that are available;
NOTE 0b:	For ordering the neighboring cells based on the CSI-RS measurement quantities, UE includes measurements only for the cells not yet included in measResultListNR in measResultNeighCells to avoid overriding SS/PBCH block-based ordered measurements.
2>	for each neighbour cell, if any, included in measResultListNR in measResultNeighCells:
3>	if the UE supports RLF-Report for conditional handover and if the neighbour cell is one of the candidate cells for which the reconfigurationWithSync is included in the masterCellGroup in the MCG VarConditionalReconfig at the moment of the detected failure:
4>	set choConfig in MeasResult2NR to the execution condition for each measId within condTriggerConfig associated to the neighbour cell within the MCG VarConditionalReconfig;
4>	if the first entry of choConfig corresponds to a fulfilled execution condition at the moment of handover failure, or radio link failure; or
4>	if the second entry of choConfig, if available, corresponds to a fulfilled execution condition at the moment of handover failure, or radio link failure:
5>	set firstTriggeredEvent to the execution condition condFirstEvent corresponding to the first entry of choConfig or to the execution condition condSecondEvent corresponding to the second entry of choConfig, whichever execution condition was fulfilled first in time;
5>	set timeBetweenEvents to the elapsed time between the point in time of fulfilling the condition in choConfig that was fulfilled first in time, and the point in time of fulfilling the condition in choConfig that was fulfilled second in time, if both the first execution condition corresponding to the first entry and the second execution condition corresponding to the second entry in the choConfig were fulfilled;
1>	for each of the configured measObjectNR associated with neighboring cells if the associated reportConfigNR includes measRSSI-ReportConfig:
2>	set the measResultNeighFreqRSSI in the measResultNeighFreqListRSSI to the linear average of the available RSSI sample value(s) provided by lower layers for the frequencies other than the frequency of the source PCell (in case HO failure) or of the PCell (in case RLF), up to the moment the UE detected failure:
3>	for each neighbour frequency included, include the optional fields that are available;
1>	for each of the configured EUTRA frequencies in which measurements are available;
2>	set the measResultListEUTRA in measResultNeighCells to include the best measured cells ordered such that the cell with highest RSRP is listed first if RSRP measurement results are available, otherwise the cell with highest RSRQ is listed first, and based on measurements collected up to the moment the UE detected failure;
3>	for each neighbour cell included, include the optional fields that are available;
NOTE 1:	The measured quantities are filtered by the L3 filter as configured in the mobility measurement configuration. The measurements are based on the time domain measurement resource restriction, if configured. Exclude-listed cells are not required to be reported.
1>	set the c-RNTI to the C-RNTI used in the source PCell (in case HO failure) or PCell (in case RLF);
1>	if the failure is detected due to reconfiguration with sync failure as described in 5.3.5.8.3, set the fields in VarRLF-report as follows:
2>	set the connectionFailureType to hof;
2>	if the UE supports RLF-Report for DAPS handover and if any DAPS bearer was configured while T304 was running:
3>	set lastHO-Type to daps;
3>	if radio link failure was detected in the source PCell, according to clause 5.3.10.3:
4>	set timeConnSourceDAPS-Failure to the time between the initiation of the DAPS handover execution and the radio link failure detected in the source PCell while T304 was running;
4>	set the rlf-Cause to the trigger for detecting the source radio link failure in accordance with clause 5.3.10.4;
2>	if the UE supports RLF-Report for conditional handover and if configuration of the conditional handover is available in the MCG VarConditionalReconfig at the moment of the handover failure:
3>	if the UE executed a conditional handover toward target PCell according to the condRRCReconfig of the target PCell:
4>	set timeSinceCHO-Reconfig to the time elapsed between the execution of the last RRCReconfiguration message including reconfigurationWithSync for the target PCell of the failed conditional handover, and the reception in the source PCell of the last conditionalReconfiguration including the condRRCReconfig of the target PCell of the failed conditional handover;
3>	else:
4>	set timeSinceCHO-Reconfig to the time elapsed between the execution of the last RRCReconfiguration message including reconfigurationWithSync for the target PCell of the failed handover, and the reception in the source PCell of the last conditionalReconfiguration including the condRRCReconfig;
3>	set choCandidateCellList to include the global cell identity, if available, and otherwise to the physical cell identity and carrier frequency of each of the candidate target cells for conditional handover included in condRRCReconfig within the MCG VarConditionalReconfig at the time of the failed handover, excluding the candidate target cells included in measResultNeighCells;
2>	if the UE supports RLF-Report for conditional handover and if the last executed RRCReconfiguration message including reconfigurationWithSync was concerning a conditional handover:
3>	set lastHO-Type to cho;
2>	set the nrFailedPCellId in failedPCellId to the global cell identity and tracking area code, if available, and otherwise to the physical cell identity and carrier frequency of the target PCell of the failed handover;
2>	include nrPreviousCell in previousPCellId and set it to the global cell identity and tracking area code of the PCell where the last RRCReconfiguration message including reconfigurationWithSync was received;
2>	set the timeConnFailure to the elapsed time since the execution of the last RRCReconfiguration message including the reconfigurationWithSync;
1>	else if the failure is detected due to Mobility from NR failure as described in 5.4.3.5, set the fields in VarRLF-report as follows:
2>	set the connectionFailureType to hof;
2>	if last MobilityFromNRCommand concerned a failed inter-RAT handover from NR to E-UTRA and if the UE supports Radio Link Failure Report for Inter-RAT MRO EUTRA (NR to EUTRA):
3>	set the eutraFailedPCellId in failedPCellId to the global cell identity and tracking area code, if available, and otherwise to the physical cell identity and carrier frequency of the target PCell of the failed handover;
2>	include nrPreviousCell in previousPCellId and set it to the global cell identity and tracking area code of the PCell where the last MobilityFromNRCommand message was received;
2>	set the timeConnFailure to the elapsed time since the initialization of the handover associated to the last MobilityFromNRCommand message;
2>	if the UE supports RLF report for inter-system handover for voice fallback and if voiceFallbackIndication is included in the last MobilityFromNRCommand:
3>	include the voiceFallbackHO;
1>	else if the failure is detected due to radio link failure as described in 5.3.10.3, set the fields in VarRLF-report as follows:
2>	set the connectionFailureType to rlf;
2>	set the rlf-Cause to the trigger for detecting radio link failure in accordance with clause 5.3.10.4;
2>	set the nrFailedPCellId in failedPCellId to the global cell identity and the tracking area code, if available, and otherwise to the physical cell identity and carrier frequency of the PCell where radio link failure is detected;
2>	if an RRCReconfiguration message including the reconfigurationWithSync was received before the connection failure:
3>	if the last successfully executed RRCReconfiguration message including the reconfigurationWithSync concerned an intra NR handover and it was received while connected to the previous PCell to which the UE was connected before connecting to the PCell where radio link failure is detected; and
3>	if T316 was not running before entering the PCell in which the radio link failure was detected; and
3>	if T311 was not running before entering the PCell in which the radio link failure was detected:
4>	include the nrPreviousCell in previousPCellId and set it to the global cell identity and the tracking area code of the PCell where the last executed RRCReconfiguration message including reconfigurationWithSync was received;
4>	if the UE supports RLF-Report for DAPS handover and if the last executed RRCReconfiguration message including reconfigurationWithSync was concerning a DAPS handover:
5>	set lastHO-Type to daps;
4>	else if the UE supports RLF-Report for conditional handover and if the last executed RRCReconfiguration message including reconfigurationWithSync was concerning a conditional handover:
5>	set lastHO-Type to cho;
4>	set the timeConnFailure to the elapsed time since the execution of the last RRCReconfiguration message including the reconfigurationWithSync;
3>	else if the last RRCReconfiguration message including the reconfigurationWithSync concerned a handover to NR from E-UTRA and if the UE supports Radio Link Failure Report for Inter-RAT MRO EUTRA:
4>	include the eutraPreviousCell in previousPCellId and set it to the global cell identity and the tracking area code of the E-UTRA PCell where the last RRCReconfiguration message including reconfigurationWithSync was received embedded in E-UTRA RRC message MobilityFromEUTRACommand message as specified in TS 36.331 [10] clause 5.4.3.3;
4>	set the timeConnFailure to the elapsed time since reception of the last RRCReconfiguration message including the reconfigurationWithSync embedded in E-UTRA RRC message MobilityFromEUTRACommand message as specified in TS 36.331 [10] clause 5.4.3.3;
2>	if configuration of the conditional handover is available in the MCG VarConditionalReconfig at the moment of declaring the radio link failure:
3>	set timeSinceCHO-Reconfig to the time elapsed between the detection of the radio link failure, and the reception, in the source PCell, of the last conditionalReconfiguration including the condRRCReconfig message;
3>	set choCandidateCellList to include the global cell identity if available, and otherwise to the physical cell identity and carrier frequency of each of all the candidate target cells for conditional handover included in condRRCReconfig within the MCG VarConditionalReconfig at the time of radio link failure, excluding the candidate target cells included in measResultNeighCells;
1>	if connectionFailureType is rlf and the rlf-Cause is set to randomAccessProblem or beamFailureRecoveryFailure; or
1>	if connectionFailureType is rlf and the rlf-Cause is set to lbtFailure and the radio link failure is detected during the random access procedure; or
1>	if connectionFailureType is hof and if the failed handover is an intra-RAT handover and if a random-access procedure was triggered for the failed handover:
2>	set the ra-InformationCommon to include the random-access related information as described in clause 5.7.10.5;
1>	if connectionFailureType is rlf and the rlf-Cause is set to lbtFailure, and the radio link failure is not detected during the random access procedure:
2>	set the locationAndBandwidth and subcarrierSpacing in bwp-Info associated to the UL BWP in which the consistent uplink LBT failure was detected;
1>	if the rlf-Cause is set to t310-Expiry or t312-Expiry:
2>	set the ssbRLMConfigBitmap and/or csi-rsRLMConfigBitmap in measResultLastServCell to include the radio link monitoring configuration of the last serving cell, if available;
1>	if available, set the locationInfo as in 5.3.3.7.
The UE may discard the radio link failure information or handover failure information, i.e. release the UE variable VarRLF-Report, 48 hours after the radio link failure/handover failure is detected.
NOTE 2:	In this clause, the term 'handover failure' has been used to refer to 'reconfiguration with sync failure'.
5.3.11	UE actions upon going to RRC_IDLE
The UE shall:
1>	reset MAC;
1>	if the UE is NCR-MT:
2>	indicate to NCR-Fwd to cease forwarding;
1>	set the variable pendingRNA-Update to false, if that is set to true;
1>	if going to RRC_IDLE was triggered by reception of the RRCRelease message including a waitTime:
2>	if T302 is running:
3>	stop timer T302;
2>	start timer T302 with the value set to the waitTime;
2>	inform upper layers that access barring is applicable for all access categories except categories '0' and '2'.
1>	else:
2>	if T302 is running:
3>	stop timer T302;
3>	perform the actions as specified in 5.3.14.4;
1>	if T390 is running:
2>	stop timer T390 for all access categories;
2>	perform the actions as specified in 5.3.14.4;
1>	if the UE is leaving RRC_INACTIVE:
2>	if going to RRC_IDLE was not triggered by reception of the RRCRelease message:
3>	if stored, discard the cell reselection priority information provided by the cellReselectionPriorities;
3>	stop the timer T320, if running;
2>	if SDT procedure is ongoing:
3>	stop timer T319a, if running;
3>	consider SDT procedure is not ongoing;
1>	stop all timers that are running except T302, T320, T325, T330, T331, T400 and T430;
1>	discard the UE Inactive AS context, if any;
1>	release the suspendConfig, if configured;
1>	release the aerial-Config, if configured;
1>	perform LTM configuration release procedure for the MCG and SCG as specified in clause 5.3.5.18.7;
1>	remove all the entries within the MCG and the SCG VarConditionalReconfig, if any;
1>	remove the servingSecurityCellSetId within the VarServingSecurityCellSetID, if any;
1>	for each measId, if the associated reportConfig has a reportType set to condTriggerConfig:
2>	for the associated reportConfigId:
3>	remove the entry with the matching reportConfigId from the reportConfigList within the VarMeasConfig;
2>	if the associated measObjectId is only associated to a reportConfig with reportType set to condTriggerConfig:
3>	remove the entry with the matching measObjectId from the measObjectList within the VarMeasConfig;
2>	remove the entry with the matching measId from the measIdList within the VarMeasConfig;
1>	discard the KgNB key, the S-KgNB key, the S-KeNB key, the KRRCenc key, the KRRCint key, the KUPint key and the KUPenc key, if any;
1>	if SL indirect path is configured:
2>	release cell identity and relay UE ID configured in sl-IndirectPathAddChange;
2>	indicate upper layers to trigger PC5 unicast link release of the SL indirect path;
1>	if N3C indirect path is configured:
2>	release n3c-IndirectPathAddChange;
2>	consider the non-3GPP connection is not used;
1>	if the UE is acting as a N3C relay UE:
2>	release n3c-IndirectPathConfigRelay;
2>	consider the non-3GPP connection is not used;
1>	release all radio resources, including release of the RLC entity, the BAP entity, the MAC configuration and the associated PDCP entity and SDAP for all established RBs (except for broadcast MRBs), BH RLC channels, Uu Relay RLC channels, PC5 Relay RLC channels and SRAP entity;
NOTE 0:	A L2 U2N Relay UE may re-establish the SL-RLC0, SL-RLC1 and SRAP entity after release.
1>	indicate the release of the RRC connection to upper layers together with the release cause;
1>	for each application layer measurement configuration without appLayerIdleInactiveConfig configured:
2>	forward the measConfigAppLayerId and inform upper layers about the release of the application layer measurement configuration;
2>	release the application layer measurement configuration;
2>	discard any application layer measurement reports which were not yet fully submitted to lower layers for transmission;
2>	consider itself not to be configured to send application layer measurement reports for the measConfigAppLayerId;
1>	for each application layer measurement configuration with appLayerIdleInactiveConfig configured:
2>	forward the measConfigAppLayerId and inform upper layers about the release of the RAN visible application layer measurement configuration;
2>	discard any RAN visible application layer measurement reports received from upper layers;
2>	initiate the procedure in 5.5b.1.2;
1>	discard any segments of segmented RRC messages stored according to 5.7.6.3;
1>	except if going to RRC_IDLE was triggered by inter-RAT cell reselection while the UE is in RRC_INACTIVE or RRC_IDLE or when selecting an inter-RAT cell while T311 was running or when selecting an E-UTRA cell for EPS fallback for IMS voice as specified in 5.4.3.5:
2>	if the UE is capable of L2 U2N Remote UE:
3>	enter RRC_IDLE, and perform either cell selection as specified in TS 38.304 [20], or relay selection as specified in clause 5.8.15.3, or both;
2>	else:
3>	enter RRC_IDLE and perform cell selection as specified in TS 38.304 [20];
NOTE 1:	Whether to release the PC5 unicast link is left to L2 U2N Remote UE's implementation.
NOTE 2:	It is left to UE implementation whether to stop T430, if running, when going to RRC_IDLE.
5.3.12	UE actions upon PUCCH/SRS release request
Upon receiving a PUCCH release request from lower layers, for all bandwidth parts of an indicated serving cell the UE shall:
1>	release PUCCH-CSI-Resources configured in CSI-ReportConfig;
1>	release PUCCH-CSI-Resources configured in LTM-CSI-ReportConfig;
1>	release SchedulingRequestResourceConfig instances configured in PUCCH-Config.
Upon receiving an SRS release request from lower layers, for all bandwidth parts of an indicated serving cell the UE shall:
1>	release SRS-Resource instances configured in SRS-Config;
1>	release SRS-PosResourceSetLinkedForAggBW, if configured;
1>	release ue-TxTEG-RequestUL-TDOA-Config, if configured.
Upon receiving a positioning SRS configuration for RRC_INACTIVE release request from lower layers, the UE shall:
1>	release the configured srs-PosRRC-Inactive;
1>	release SRS-PosResourceSetLinkedForAggBW, if configured.
5.3.13	RRC connection resume
5.3.13.1	General

Figure 5.3.13.1-1: RRC connection resume, successful

Figure 5.3.13.1-2: RRC connection resume fallback to RRC connection establishment, successful

Figure 5.3.13.1-3: RRC connection resume followed by network release, successful

Figure 5.3.13.1-4: RRC connection resume followed by network suspend, successful

Figure 5.3.13.1-5: RRC connection resume, network reject
The purpose of this procedure is to resume a suspended RRC connection, including resuming SRB(s), DRB(s) and multicast MRB(s) or perform an RNA update. This procedure is also used to initiate SDT in RRC_INACTIVE.
5.3.13.1a	Conditions for resuming RRC Connection for NR sidelink communication/positioning/discovery/V2X sidelink communication
For NR sidelink communication/positioning/discovery an RRC connection is resumed only in the following cases:
1>	if configured by upper layers to transmit NR sidelink communication and related data is available for transmission:
2>	if the frequency on which the UE is configured to transmit NR sidelink communication is included in sl-FreqInfoList/sl-FreqInfoListSizeExt within SIB12 provided by the cell on which the UE camps; and if the valid version of SIB12 does not include sl-TxPoolSelectedNormal for the concerned frequency;
1>	if configured by upper layers to transmit NR sidelink discovery and related data is available for transmission:
2>	if the UE is configured by upper layers to transmit NR sidelink L2 U2U relay discovery messages and sl-L2-U2U-Relay-r18 is included in SIB12; or
2>	if the UE is configured by upper layers to transmit NR sidelink L3 U2U relay discovery messages and sl-L3-U2U-RelayDiscovery is included in SIB12; or
2>	if the UE is configured by upper layers to transmit NR sidelink L2 U2N relay discovery messages and sl-L2U2N-Relay is included in SIB12; or
2>	if the UE is configured by upper layers to transmit NR sidelink L3 U2N relay discovery messages and sl-L3U2N-RelayDiscovery is included in SIB12; or
2>	if the UE is configured by upper layers to transmit NR sidelink non-relay discovery messages and sl-NonRelayDiscovery is included in SIB12:
3>	if the frequency on which the UE is configured to transmit NR sidelink discovery is included in sl-FreqInfoList within SIB12 provided by the cell on which the UE camps; and if the valid version of SIB12 does not include sl-DiscTxPoolSelected or sl-TxPoolSelectedNormal for the concerned frequency;
1>	if configured by upper layers to perform NR sidelink positioning and indicated by upper layers to transmit SL-PRS:
2>	if the frequency on which the UE is configured to transmit SL-PRS is included in sl-FreqInfoList/sl-FreqInfoListSizeExt within SIB12 provided by the cell on which the UE camps; and if the valid version of SIB12 does not include sl-PRS-ResourcesSharedSL-PRS-RP-r18 in sl-TxPoolSelectedNormal for the concerned frequency; or
2>	if the frequency on which the UE is configured to transmit SL-PRS is included in sl-PosFreqInfoList within SIB23 provided by the cell on which the UE camps; and if the valid version of SIB23 does not include sl-PRS-TxPoolSelectedNormal for the concerned frequency;
For L2 U2N Relay UE in RRC_INACTIVE, an RRC connection establishment is resumed in the following cases:
1>	if any message is received from the L2 U2N Remote UE via SL-RLC0 as specified in 9.1.1.4 or SL-RLC1 as specified in 9.2.4; or
1>	if RemoteUEInformationSidelink containing the connectionForMP is received from a L2 U2N Remote UE as specified in 5.8.9.8.3;
For V2X sidelink communication an RRC connection resume is initiated only when the conditions specified for V2X sidelink communication in clause 5.3.3.1a of TS 36.331 [10] are met.
NOTE:	Upper layers initiate an RRC connection resume (except if the RRC connection resume is initiated at the L2 U2N Relay UE upon reception of a message from a L2 U2N Remote UE via SL-RLC0 or SL-RLC1, or upon reception of RemoteUEInformationSidelink message containing the connectionForMP). The interaction with NAS is left to UE implementation.
5.3.13.1b	Conditions for initiating SDT
When requesting lower layers to check the conditions for initiating SDT, RRC indicates to lower layers whether the resume procedure is initiated for mobile originated or mobile terminated case.
A UE in RRC_INACTIVE initiates the resume procedure for SDT when all of the following conditions are fulfilled:
1>	for the resume procedure initiated by the upper layers (i.e. mobile originated case):
2>	SIB1 includes sdt-ConfigCommon; and
2>	sdt-Config is configured; and
2>	all the pending data in UL is mapped to the radio bearers configured for SDT; and
2>	for an (e)RedCap UE when RedCap-specific initial downlink BWP includes no CD-SSB, ncd-SSB-RedCapInitialBWP-SDT is configured; and
2>	lower layers indicate that conditions for initiating MO-SDT as specified in TS 38.321 [3] are fulfilled.
1>	for the resume procedure initiated in response to RAN paging (i.e. mobile terminated case):
2>	lower layers indicate that conditions for initiating MT-SDT as specified in TS 38.321 [3] are fulfilled.
NOTE:	How the UE determines that all pending data in UL is mapped to radio bearers configured for SDT is left to UE implementation.
5.3.13.1c	Void
5.3.13.1d	Conditions for resuming RRC connection for multicast reception
In RRC_INACTIVE state, if configured with MBS multicast reception in RRC_INACTIVE, the UE shall:
1>	if the RRC connection resume procedure is triggered for multicast reception at reception of SIB1, as specified in 5.2.2.4.2; or
1>	if the RRC connection resume procedure is triggered for multicast reception at reception of Paging message, as specified in 5.3.2.3; or
1>	if the PTM configuration is not available on the multicast MCCH in the new cell after cell selection (i.e., different from the cell where the UE was configured to receive multicast in RRC_CONNECTED) or in the cell after cell reselection for at least one multicast session that the UE has joined and for which the UE is not indicated to stop monitoring the G-RNTI; or
1>	if mbs-NeighbourCellList included in MBSMulticastConfiguration acquired in the previous cell indicates that at least one multicast session that the UE has joined and for which the UE is not indicated to stop monitoring the G-RNTI, is not provided for RRC_INACTIVE in the current serving cell; or
1>	if either the measured RSRP or RSRQ for serving cell as specified in TS 38.304 [20] is below the corresponding threshold indicated by thresholdIndex for a multicast session that the UE has joined and for which the UE is not indicated to stop monitoring the G-RNTI:
2>	initiate RRC connection resume procedure as specified in 5.3.13.2 with resumeCause set as below:
3>	if the UE is configured by upper layers with Access Identity 1:
4>	set resumeCause to mps-PriorityAccess;
3>	else if the UE is configured by upper layers with Access Identity 2:
4>	set resumeCause to mcs-PriorityAccess;
3>	else if the UE is configured by upper layers with one or more Access Identities equal to 11-15:
4>	set resumeCause to highPriorityAccess;
3>	else:
4>	set resumeCause to mt-Access.
5.3.13.2	Initiation
The UE initiates the procedure when upper layers or AS (when responding to RAN paging, upon triggering RNA updates while the UE is in RRC_INACTIVE, upon requesting multicast reception as specified in clause 5.3.13.1d, for NR sidelink communication/discovery/V2X sidelink communication as specified in clause 5.3.13.1a, for requesting configuration for SRS for positioning, for activation of preconfigured Positioning SRS in RRC_INACTIVE, for activation of non-preconfigured Positioning SRS with type semi-persistent in RRC_INACTIVE, upon receiving RRCRelease message including resumeIndication) requests the resume of a suspended RRC connection or requests the resume for initiating SDT as specified in clause 5.3.13.1b.
The UE shall ensure having valid and up to date essential system information as specified in clause 5.2.2.2 before initiating this procedure.
Upon initiation of the procedure, the UE shall:
1>	if the resumption of the RRC connection is triggered by response to NG-RAN paging; or
1> if the resumption of the RRC connection is triggered by receiving RRCRelease message including resumeIndication; or
1>	if the resumption of the RRC connection is triggered for multicast reception as specified in clause 5.3.13.1d:
2>	select '0' as the Access Category;
2>	perform the unified access control procedure as specified in 5.3.14 using the selected Access Category and one or more Access Identities provided by upper layers;
3>	if the access attempt is barred, the procedure ends;
1>	else if the resumption of the RRC connection is triggered by upper layers:
2>	if the upper layers provide an Access Category and one or more Access Identities:
3>	perform the unified access control procedure as specified in 5.3.14 using the Access Category and Access Identities provided by upper layers;
4>	if the access attempt is barred, the procedure ends;
2>	if the upper layers provide NSAG information and one or more S-NSSAI(s) triggering the access attempt (TS 23.501 [32] and TS 24.501 [23]):
3>	apply the NSAG with highest NSAG priority among the NSAGs that are included in SIB1 (i.e., in FeatureCombination and/or in RA-PrioritizationSliceInfo), and that are associated with the S-NSSAI(s) triggering the access attempt, in the Random Access procedure (TS 38.321 [3], clause 5.1);
NOTE 0:	If there are multiple NSAGs with the same highest NAS-provided NSAG priority identified for access attempt as above, it is left to UE implementation to select the NSAG to be applied in the Random Access procedure.
2>	if the resumption occurs after release with redirect with mpsPriorityIndication:
3>	set the resumeCause to mps-PriorityAccess;
2>	else if the resumption of the RRC connection is triggered for activation of preconfigured SRS for positioning available in srs-PosRRC-InactiveValidityAreaPreConfigList and if the UE is camped in one of the cells indicated in one of srs-PosConfigValidityArea; or
2>	if the resumption of the RRC connection is triggered due to the need for SRS for positioning configuration and no stored srs-PosRRC-InactiveValidityAreaPreConfigList for the camped cell exists; or
2>	if the resumption of the RRC connection is triggered due to activation of non-preconfigured SRS for positioning with type semi-persistent available in srs-PosRRC-InactiveValidityAreaNonPreConfig and if the UE is camped in the cells indicated in srs-PosConfigValidityArea:
3>	if an emergency service is ongoing:
4>	select '2' as the Access Category;
4>	set the resumeCause to emergency;
3>	else:
4>	set the resumeCause to srs-PosConfigOrActivationReq;
2>	else:
3>	set the resumeCause in accordance with the information received from upper layers;
1>	else if the resumption of the RRC connection is triggered due to an RNA update as specified in 5.3.13.8:
2>	if an emergency service is ongoing:
NOTE 1:	How the RRC layer in the UE is aware of an ongoing emergency service is up to UE implementation.
3>	select '2' as the Access Category;
3>	set the resumeCause to emergency;
2>	else:
3>	select '8' as the Access Category;
2>	perform the unified access control procedure as specified in 5.3.14 using the selected Access Category and one or more Access Identities to be applied as specified in TS 24.501 [23];
3>	if the access attempt is barred:
4>	set the variable pendingRNA-Update to true;
4>	the procedure ends;
1>	else if srs-PosRRC-InactiveValidityAreaPreConfigList or srs-PosRRC-InactiveValidityAreaNonPreConfig is configured:
2>	if the resumption of the RRC connection is triggered due to cell reselection as specified in clause 5.3.13.6:
3>	if an emergency service is ongoing:
4>	select '2' as the Access Category;
4>	set the resumeCause to emergency;
3>	else:
4>	select '8' as the Access Category;
4>	set the resumeCause to srs-PosConfigOrActivationReq;
NOTE 2:	In case the L2 U2N Relay UE initiates RRC connection resume triggered either by reception of message from a L2 U2N Remote UE via SL-RLC0 or SL-RLC1 as specified in 5.3.13.1a, or by reception of the RemoteUEInformationSidelink message containing the connectionForMP as specified in 5.3.13.1a, the L2 U2N Relay UE sets the resumeCause by implementation, but it can only set the emergency, mps-PriorityAccess, or mcs-PriorityAccess as resumeCause, if the same cause value in the message received from the L2 U2N Remote UE via SL-RLC0.
1>	if the UE is in NE-DC or NR-DC:
2>	if the UE does not support maintaining SCG configuration upon connection resumption:
3>	release the MR-DC related configurations (i.e., as specified in 5.3.5.10) from the UE Inactive AS context, if stored;
1>	if the UE does not support maintaining the MCG SCell configurations upon connection resumption:
2>	release the MCG SCell(s) from the UE Inactive AS context, if stored;
1>	if the UE is acting as L2 U2N Remote UE:
2>	establish a SRAP entity as specified in TS 38.351 [66], if no SRAP entity has been established;
2>	apply the default configuration of SL-RLC1 as defined in 9.2.4 for SRB1;
2>	apply the default PDCP configuration as defined in 9.2.1 for SRB1;
2>	apply the default configuration of SRAP as defined in 9.2.5 for SRB1;
1>	else:
2>	apply the default L1 parameter values as specified in corresponding physical layer specifications, except for the parameters for which values are provided in SIB1;
2>	apply the default SRB1 configuration as specified in 9.2.1;
2>	apply the default MAC Cell Group configuration as specified in 9.2.2;
1>	release delayBudgetReportingConfig from the UE Inactive AS context, if stored;
1>	stop timer T342, if running;
1>	release overheatingAssistanceConfig from the UE Inactive AS context, if stored;
1>	stop timer T345, if running;
1>	release idc-AssistanceConfig from the UE Inactive AS context, if stored;
1>	release drx-PreferenceConfig for all configured cell groups from the UE Inactive AS context, if stored;
1>	stop all instances of timer T346a, if running;
1>	release maxBW-PreferenceConfig and maxBW-PreferenceConfigFR2-2 for all configured cell groups from the UE Inactive AS context, if stored;
1>	stop all instances of timer T346b, if running;
1>	release maxCC-PreferenceConfig for all configured cell groups from the UE Inactive AS context, if stored;
1>	stop all instances of timer T346c, if running;
1>	release maxMIMO-LayerPreferenceConfig and maxMIMO-LayerPreferenceConfigFR2-2 for all configured cell groups from the UE Inactive AS context, if stored;
1>	stop all instances of timer T346d, if running;
1>	release minSchedulingOffsetPreferenceConfig and minSchedulingOffsetPreferenceConfigExt for all configured cell groups from the UE Inactive AS context, if stored;
1>	stop all instances of timer T346e, if running;
1>	release rlm-RelaxationReportingConfig for all configured cell groups from the UE Inactive AS context, if stored;
1>	stop all instances of timer T346j, if running;
1>	release bfd-RelaxationReportingConfig for all configured cell groups from the UE Inactive AS context, if stored;
1>	stop all instances of timer T346k, if running;
1>	release releasePreferenceConfig from the UE Inactive AS context, if stored;
1>	release wlanNameList from the UE Inactive AS context, if stored;
1>	release btNameList from the UE Inactive AS context, if stored;
1>	release sensorNameList from the UE Inactive AS context, if stored;
1>	release obtainCommonLocation from the UE Inactive AS context, if stored;
1>	stop timer T346f, if running;
1>	stop timer T346i, if running;
1>	release referenceTimePreferenceReporting from the UE Inactive AS context, if stored;
1>	release sl-AssistanceConfigNR from the UE Inactive AS context, if stored;
1>	release musim-GapAssistanceConfig from the UE Inactive AS context, if stored and stop timer T346h, if running;
1>	release musim-GapConfig from the UE Inactive AS context, if stored;
1>	release musim-GapPriorityAssistanceConfig from the UE Inactive AS context, if stored;
1>	release musim-LeaveAssistanceConfig from the UE Inactive AS context, if stored;
1>	release musim-CapabilityRestrictionConfig from the UE Inactive AS context, if stored and stop timer T346n, if running;
1>	release propDelayDiffReportConfig from the UE Inactive AS context, if stored;
1>	release ul-GapFR2-PreferenceConfig, if configured;
1>	release rrm-MeasRelaxationReportingConfig from the UE Inactive AS context, if stored;
1>	release multiRx-PreferenceReportingConfigFR2 if configured, and stop timer T346m, if running;
1>	release aerial-FlightPathAvailabilityConfig from the UE Inactive AS context, if stored;
1>	release ul-TrafficInfoReportingConfig from the UE Inactive AS context, if stored;
1>	stop all instances of timer T346l, if running;
1>	if the UE is acting as L2 U2N Remote UE:
2>	apply the specified configuration of SL-RLC0 used for the delivery of RRC message over SRB0 as specified in 9.1.1.4;
2>	apply the SDAP configuration and PDCP configuration as specified in 9.1.1.2 for SRB0;
1>	else:
2>	apply the CCCH configuration as specified in 9.1.1.2;
2>	apply the timeAlignmentTimerCommon included in SIB1;
1>	if sdt-MAC-PHY-CG-Config is configured:
2>	if the resume procedure is initiated in a cell that is different to the PCell in which the UE received the stored sdt-MAC-PHY-CG-Config:
3>	release the stored sdt-MAC-PHY-CG-Config;
3>	instruct the MAC entity to stop the cg-SDT-TimeAlignmentTimer, if it is running;
1>	if ncd-SSB-RedCapInitialBWP-SDT is configured:
2>	if the resume procedure is initiated in a cell that is different to the PCell in which the UE received the stored ncd-SSB-RedCapInitialBWP-SDT:
3>	release the stored ncd-SSB-RedCapInitialBWP-SDT;
1>	if conditions for initiating SDT in accordance with 5.3.13.1b are fulfilled:
2>	consider the resume procedure is initiated for SDT;
2>	start timer T319a when the lower layers first transmit the CCCH message;
2>	consider SDT procedure is ongoing;
1> else:
2>	start timer T319;
2>	instruct the MAC entity to stop the cg-SDT-TimeAlignmentTimer, if it is running;
1>	if ta-Report or ta-ReportATG is configured with value enabled and the UE supports TA reporting:
2>	indicate TA report initiation to lower layers;
1>	set the variable pendingRNA-Update to false;
1>	release successHO-Config from the UE Inactive AS context, if stored;
1>	release successPSCell-Config configured by the PCell from the UE Inactive AS context, if stored;
1>	release successPSCell-Config configured by the PSCell from the UE Inactive AS context, if stored;
1>	initiate transmission of the RRCResumeRequest message or RRCResumeRequest1 in accordance with 5.3.13.3.
5.3.13.3	Actions related to transmission of RRCResumeRequest or RRCResumeRequest1 message
The UE shall set the contents of RRCResumeRequest or RRCResumeRequest1 message as follows:
1>	if useFullResumeID is signalled in SIB1:
2>	select RRCResumeRequest1 as the message to use;
2>	set the resumeIdentity to the stored fullI-RNTI value;
1>	else:
2>	select RRCResumeRequest as the message to use;
2>	set the resumeIdentity to the stored shortI-RNTI value;
1>	restore the RRC configuration, RoHC state, the EHC context(s), the UDC state, the stored QoS flow to DRB mapping rules and the KgNB and KRRCint keys from the stored UE Inactive AS context except for the following:
-	masterCellGroup;
-	mrdc-SecondaryCellGroup, if stored; and
-	pdcp-Config;
1>	set the resumeMAC-I to the 16 least significant bits of the MAC-I calculated:
2>	over the ASN.1 encoded as per clause 8 (i.e., a multiple of 8 bits) VarResumeMAC-Input;
2>	with the KRRCint key in the UE Inactive AS Context and the previously configured integrity protection algorithm; and
2>	with all input bits for COUNT, BEARER and DIRECTION set to binary ones;
1>	derive the KgNB key based on the current KgNB key or the NH, using the nextHopChainingCount value received in the previous RRCRelease message and stored in the UE Inactive AS Context, as specified in TS 33.501 [11];
1>	derive the KRRCenc key, the KRRCint key, the KUPint key and the KUPenc key;
1>	configure lower layers to apply integrity protection for all radio bearers except SRB0 and MRBs using the configured algorithm and the KRRCint key and KUPint key derived in this clause immediately, i.e., integrity protection shall be applied to all subsequent messages received and sent by the UE;
NOTE 1:	Only DRBs with previously configured UP integrity protection shall resume integrity protection.
1>	configure lower layers to apply ciphering for all radio bearers except SRB0 and MRBs and to apply the configured ciphering algorithm, the KRRCenc key and the KUPenc key derived in this clause, i.e. the ciphering configuration shall be applied to all subsequent messages received and sent by the UE;
1>	re-establish PDCP entities for SRB1;
1>	resume SRB1;
1>	if the resume procedure is initiated for SDT:
2>	for each radio bearer that is configured for SDT and for SRB1:
3>	restore the RLC-BearerConfig associated with the RLC bearers of masterCellGroup and pdcp-Config from the UE Inactive AS context;
3>	if the radio bearer is a DRB configured with Ethernet Header Compression:
4>	indicate to lower layer that ethernetHeaderCompression is not configured;
3>	if the radio bearer is a DRB configured with UDC:
4>	indicate to lower layer that uplinkDataCompression is not configured;
3>	if the radio bearer is a DRB configured with ROHC function:
4>	if sdt-DRB-ContinueROHC is set to cell and the resume procedure is initiated in a cell that is the same as the PCell in which the UE received the previous RRCRelease message; or
4>	if sdt-DRB-ContinueROHC is set to rna and the resume procedure is initiated in a cell belonging to the same RNA as the PCell in which the UE received the previous RRCRelease message:
5>	indicate to lower layer that drb-continueROHC is configured;
4>	else:
5>	indicate to lower layer that drb-continueROHC is not configured;
3>	re-establish PDCP entity for the radio bearer that is configured for SDT without triggering PDCP status report;
2>	resume all the radio bearers that are configured for SDT;
1>	submit the selected message RRCResumeRequest or RRCResumeRequest1 for transmission to lower layers.
NOTE 2:	Only DRBs with previously configured UP ciphering shall resume ciphering.
NOTE 2a:	Before the lower layers first transmit the RRCResumeRequest or RRCResumeRequest1, the UE may initiate a new resume procedure if other conditions for initiation of the resume procedure as specified in 5.3.13.2 are satisfied.
If lower layers indicate an integrity check failure while T319 is running or SDT procedure is ongoing, perform actions specified in 5.3.13.5.
If the UE is an (e)RedCap UE and the RedCap-specific initial downlink BWP is not associated with CD-SSB, the UE may continue cell re-selection related measurements as well as cell re-selection evaluation, otherwise the UE shall continue cell re-selection related measurements as well as cell re-selection evaluation. If the conditions for cell re-selection are fulfilled, the UE shall perform cell re-selection as specified in 5.3.13.6.
NOTE 3:	For L2 U2N Remote UE in RRC_INACTIVE, the cell (re)selection procedure as specified in TS 38.304 [20] and relay (re)selection procedure as specified in 5.8.15.3 are performed independently and it is up to UE implementation to select either a cell or a L2 U2N Relay UE.
5.3.13.4	Reception of the RRCResume by the UE
The UE shall:
1>	stop timer T319, if running;
1>	stop timer T319a, if running and consider SDT procedure is not ongoing;
1>	stop timer T380, if running;
1>	if T331 is running:
2>	stop timer T331;
2>	perform the actions as specified in 5.7.8.3;
1>	if the RRCResume includes the fullConfig:
2>	perform the full configuration procedure as specified in 5.3.5.11;
1>	else:
2>	if the RRCResume does not include the restoreMCG-SCells:
3>	release the MCG SCell(s) from the UE Inactive AS context, if stored;
2>	if the RRCResume does not include the restoreSCG:
3>	release the MR-DC related configurations (i.e., as specified in 5.3.5.10) from the UE Inactive AS context, if stored;
2>	restore the masterCellGroup, mrdc-SecondaryCellGroup, if stored, and pdcp-Config from the UE Inactive AS context;
2>	configure lower layers to consider the restored MCG and SCG SCell(s) (if any) to be in deactivated state;
1>	discard the UE Inactive AS context;
1>	store the used nextHopChainingCount value associated to the current KgNB;
1>	if the UE is configured to receive MBS multicast in RRC_INACTIVE:
2>	reset MAC;
1>	if sdt-MAC-PHY-CG-Config is configured:
2>	instruct the MAC entity to stop the cg-SDT-TimeAlignmentTimer, if it is running;
2>	instruct the MAC entity to start the timeAlignmentTimer associated with the PTAG indicated by tag-Id, if it is not running;
1>	if srs-PosRRC-Inactive is configured:
2>	instruct the MAC entity to stop inactivePosSRS-TimeAlignmentTimer, if it is running;
1>	if srs-PosRRC-InactiveValidityAreaNonPreConfig is configured; or
1>	if srs-PosRRC-InactiveValidityAreaPreConfigList is configured and if the cell is not listed in srs-PosConfigValidityArea:
2>	instruct the MAC entity to stop inactivePosSRS-ValidityAreaTAT, if it is running;
1>	release the suspendConfig except the ran-NotificationAreaInfo;
1>	if the RRCResume includes the masterCellGroup:
2>	perform the cell group configuration for the received masterCellGroup according to 5.3.5.5;
1>	if the RRCResume includes the mrdc-SecondaryCellGroup:
2>	if the received mrdc-SecondaryCellGroup is set to nr-SCG:
3>	perform the RRC reconfiguration according to 5.3.5.3 for the RRCReconfiguration message included in nr-SCG;
2>	if the received mrdc-SecondaryCellGroup is set to eutra-SCG:
3>	perform the RRC connection reconfiguration as specified in TS 36.331 [10], clause 5.3.5.3 for the RRCConnectionReconfiguration message included in eutra-SCG;
1>	if the RRCResume includes the radioBearerConfig:
2>	perform the radio bearer configuration according to 5.3.5.6;
1>	if the RRCResume message includes the sk-Counter:
2>	perform security key update procedure as specified in 5.3.5.7;
1>	if the RRCResume message includes the radioBearerConfig2:
2>	perform the radio bearer configuration according to 5.3.5.6;
1>	if the RRCResume message includes the needForGapsConfigNR:
2>	if needForGapsConfigNR is set to setup:
3>	consider itself to be configured to provide the measurement gap requirement information of NR target bands;
2>	else:
3>	consider itself not to be configured to provide the measurement gap requirement information of NR target bands;
1>	if the RRCResume message includes the needForGapNCSG-ConfigNR:
2>	if needForGapNCSG-ConfigNR is set to setup:
3>	consider itself to be configured to provide the measurement gap and NCSG requirement information of NR target bands;
2>	else:
3>	consider itself not to be configured to provide the measurement gap and NCSG requirement information of NR target bands;
1>	if the RRCResume message includes the needForGapNCSG-ConfigEUTRA:
2>	if needForGapNCSG-ConfigEUTRA is set to setup:
3>	consider itself to be configured to provide the measurement gap and NCSG requirement information of EUTRA target bands;
2>	else:
3>	consider itself not to be configured to provide the measurement gap and NCSG requirement information of EUTRA target bands;
1>	for each application layer measurement configuration with appLayerIdleInactiveConfig configured:
2>	if the RPLMN is not included in plmn-IdentityList in VarAppLayerPLMN-ListConfig:
3>	forward the measConfigAppLayerId and inform upper layers about the release of the application layer measurement configuration;
3>	release the application layer measurement configuration including its fields in the UE variables VarAppLayerIdleConfig and VarAppLayerPLMN-ListConfig;
3>	discard any application layer measurement reports which were not yet fully submitted to lower layers for transmission;
3>	consider itself not to be configured to send application layer measurement reports for the measConfigAppLayerId;
1>	if the RRCResume message includes the appLayerMeasConfig:
2>	if idleInactiveReportAllowed is included in the RRCResume message:
3>	if the UE is configured with at least one application layer measurement configuration with appLayerIdleInactiveConfig configured:
4>	initiate the procedure in 5.7.16.2 after the RRCResumeComplete has been transmitted;
2>	else:
3>	for each application layer measurement configuration with appLayerIdleInactiveConfig configured:
4>	forward the measConfigAppLayerId and inform upper layers about the release of the application layer measurement configuration;
4>	release the application layer measurement configuration including its fields in the UE variables VarAppLayerIdleConfig and VarAppLayerPLMN-ListConfig, if stored;
4>	discard any application layer measurement reports which were not yet fully submitted to lower layers for transmission;
4>	consider itself not to be configured to send application layer measurement reports for the measConfigAppLayerId;
2>	perform the application layer measurement configuration procedure as specified in 5.3.5.13d;
1>	if the RRCResume message includes the sl-L2RemoteUE-Config (i.e. the UE is a L2 U2N Remote UE):
2>	perform the L2 U2N Remote UE configuration procedure as specified in 5.3.5.16;
1>	if the RRCResume message includes the sl-ConfigDedicatedNR:
2>	perform the sidelink dedicated configuration procedure as specified in 5.3.5.14;
1>	resume SRB2 (if suspended), SRB3 (if configured), SRB4 (if configured), SRB5 (if configured), all DRBs (that are suspended) and multicast MRBs (that are suspended);
NOTE 1:	If the SCG is deactivated, resuming SRB3 and all DRBs does not imply that PDCP or RRC PDUs can be transmitted or received on SCG RLC bearers.
1>	if stored, discard the cell reselection priority information provided by the cellReselectionPriorities or inherited from another RAT;
1>	stop timer T320, if running;
1>	if the RRCResume message includes the measConfig:
2>	perform the measurement configuration procedure as specified in 5.5.2;
1>	resume measurements if suspended;
1>	if T390 is running:
2>	stop timer T390 for all access categories;
2>	perform the actions as specified in 5.3.14.4;
1>	if T302 is running:
2>	stop timer T302;
2>	perform the actions as specified in 5.3.14.4;
1>	enter RRC_CONNECTED;
1>	indicate to upper layers that the suspended RRC connection has been resumed;
1>	stop the cell re-selection procedure;
1>	stop relay reselection procedure if any for L2 U2N Remote UE;
1>	consider the current cell to be the PCell;
1>	set the content of the of RRCResumeComplete message as follows:
2>	if the upper layer provides NAS PDU, set the dedicatedNAS-Message to include the information received from upper layers;
2>	if upper layers provides a PLMN:
3>	if the UE is either allowed or instructed to access the PLMN via a cell for which at least one CAG ID is broadcast:
4>	set the selectedPLMN-Identity from the npn-IdentityInfoList;
3>	else:
4>	set the selectedPLMN-Identity to the PLMN selected by upper layers from the plmn-IdentityInfoList;
2>	if the masterCellGroup contains the reportUplinkTxDirectCurrent:
3>	include the uplinkTxDirectCurrentList for each MCG serving cell with UL;
3>	include uplinkDirectCurrentBWP-SUL for each MCG serving cell configured with SUL carrier, if any, within the uplinkTxDirectCurrentList;
2>	if the masterCellGroup contains the reportUplinkTxDirectCurrentTwoCarrier:
3>	include in the uplinkTxDirectCurrentTwoCarrierList the list of uplink Tx DC locations for the configured uplink carrier aggregation in the MCG;
2>	if the masterCellGroup contains the reportUplinkTxDirectCurrentMoreCarrier:
3>	include in the uplinkTxDirectCurrentMoreCarrierList the list of uplink Tx DC locations for the configured uplink carrier aggregation in the MCG;
2>	if the UE has idle/inactive measurement information concerning cells other than the PCell available in VarMeasIdleReport:
3>	if the idleModeMeasurementReq is included in the RRCResume message:
4>	if validatedMeasurementsReq is included in the RRCResume and measIdleValidityDuration is included in VarEnhMeasIdleConfig;
5>	set the measResultIdleEUTRA in the RRCResumeComplete message to the value of measReportIdleEUTRA in the VarMeasIdleReport for any valid measurement results, if available, and set validityStatus to the value of measIdleValidityDuration in VarEnhMeasIdleConfig;
5>	set the measResultIdleNR in the RRCResumeComplete message to the value of measReportIdleNR in the VarMeasIdleReport for any valid measurement results, if available, and set validityStatus to the value of measIdleValidityDuration in VarEnhMeasIdleConfig;
5>	discard the VarMeasIdleReport upon successful delivery of the RRCResumeComplete message is confirmed by lower layers;
5>	remove the measIdleValidityDuration in VarEnhMeasIdleConfig;
4>	else:
5>	set the measResultIdleEUTRA in the RRCResumeComplete message to the value of measReportIdleEUTRA in the VarMeasIdleReport, if available;
5>	set the measResultIdleNR in the RRCResumeComplete message to the value of measReportIdleNR in the VarMeasIdleReport, if available;
5>	discard the VarMeasIdleReport upon successful delivery of the RRCResumeComplete message is confirmed by lower layers;
5>	remove the measIdleValidityDuration in VarEnhMeasIdleConfig, if stored;
3>	else:
4>	if the SIB1 contains idleModeMeasurementsNR and the UE has NR idle/inactive measurement information concerning cells other than the PCell available in VarMeasIdleReport; or
4>	if the SIB1 contains idleModeMeasurementsEUTRA and the UE has E-UTRA idle/inactive measurement information available in VarMeasIdleReport:
5>	include the idleMeasAvailable;
2>	if the reselectionMeasurementReq is included in the RRCResume message:
3> if validatedMeasurementsReq is included in the RRCResume and measReselectionValidityDuration is included in VarMeasReselectionConfig:
4>	if measReselectionCarrierListNR is present in VarMeasReselectionConfig:
5>	if the UE has valid cell reselection measurements results for any frequency listed in measReselectionCarrierListNR in VarMeasRelectionConfig:
6>	set the measResultReselectionNR in the RRCResumeComplete message to the valid NR measurement results, if available for any frequency listed in measReselectionCarrierListNR in VarMeasReselectionConfig and set validityStatus to the value of measReselectionValidityDuration in VarMeasReselectionConfig;
4>	else:
5>	if the UE has valid NR cell reselection measurements results:
6>	set the measResultReselectionNR in the RRCResumeComplete message to any available valid NR measurement results, if available, and set validityStatus to the value of measReselectionValidityDuration in VarMeasReselectionConfig;
3> else:
4>	if measReselectionCarrierListNR is present in VarMeasReselectionConfig:
5>	if the UE has cell reselection measurements results for any frequency listed in measReselectionCarrierListNR in VarMeasRelectionConfig:
6>	set the measResultReselectionNR in the RRCResumeComplete message to the NR measurement results, if available for any frequency listed in measReselectionCarrierListNR in VarMeasReselectionConfig;
4>	else:
5>	if the UE has NR cell reselection measurements results:
6>	set the measResultReselectionNR in the RRCResumeComplete message to any available NR measurement results, if available;
2>	else:
3>	if the SIB1 contains reselectionMeasurementsNR:
4>	if measReselectionCarrierListNR is present in VarMeasReselectionConfig and the UE has NR reselection measurements available for any frequency listed in measReselectionCarrierListNR in VarMeasReselectionConfig; or
4>	if measReselectionCarrierListNR is not present in VarMeasReselectionConfig and if the UE has NR reselection measurements available:
5>	include the reselectionMeasAvailable;
2>	if the RRCResume message includes mrdc-SecondaryCellGroup set to eutra-SCG:
3>	include in the eutra-SCG-Response the E-UTRA RRCConnectionReconfigurationComplete message in accordance with TS 36.331 [10] clause 5.3.5.3;
2>	if the RRCResume message includes mrdc-SecondaryCellGroup set to nr-SCG:
3>	include in the nr-SCG-Response the SCG RRCReconfigurationComplete message;
2>	if the UE has logged measurements available for NR and if the RPLMN is included in plmn-IdentityList stored in VarLogMeasReport; or
2>	if the UE has logged measurements available for NR and if the current registered SNPN identity is included in snpn-ConfigID-List stored in VarLogMeasReport:
3>	include the logMeasAvailable in the RRCResumeComplete message;
3>	if Bluetooth measurement results are included in the logged measurements the UE has available for NR:
4>	include the logMeasAvailableBT in the RRCResumeComplete message;
3>	if WLAN measurement results are included in the logged measurements the UE has available for NR:
4>	include the logMeasAvailableWLAN in the RRCResumeComplete message;
2>	if the sigLoggedMeasType in VarLogMeasReport is included; or
2>	if the UE supports the override protection of the signalling based logged MDT for inter-RAT (i.e. LTE to NR), and if the sigLoggedMeasType in VarLogMeasReport of TS 36.331 [10] is included:
3>	if T330 timer is running (associated to the logged measurement configuration for NR or for LTE):
4>	set sigLogMeasConfigAvailable to true in the RRCResumeComplete message;
3>	else:
4>	if the UE has logged measurements in VarLogMeasReport or in VarLogMeasReport of TS 36.331 [10]:
5>	set sigLogMeasConfigAvailable to false in the RRCResumeComplete message;
2>	if the UE has connection establishment failure or connection resume failure information available in VarConnEstFailReport or VarConnEstFailReportList and if the RPLMN is equal to plmn-Identity stored in VarConnEstFailReport or in at least one of the entries of VarConnEstFailReportList; or
2>	if the UE has connection establishment failure information or connection resume failure information available in VarConnEstFailReport or VarConnEstFailReportList and if the registered SNPN identity is equal to snpn-Identity in networkIdentity stored in VarConnEstFailReport or any entry of VarConnEstFailReportList:
3>	include connEstFailInfoAvailable in the RRCResumeComplete message;
2>	if the UE has radio link failure or handover failure information available in VarRLF-Report and if the RPLMN is included in plmn-IdentityList stored in VarRLF-Report; or
2>	if the UE has radio link failure or handover failure information available in VarRLF-Report of TS 36.331 [10] and if the UE is capable of cross-RAT RLF reporting and if the RPLMN is included in plmn-IdentityList stored in VarRLF-Report of TS 36.331 [10]; or
2>	if the UE has radio link failure or handover failure information available in VarRLF-Report and if the current registered SNPN identity are included in snpn-IdentityList stored in VarRLF-Report; or
3>	include rlf-InfoAvailable in the RRCResumeComplete message;
2>	if the UE has successful PSCell change or addition related information available in VarSuccessPSCell-Report and if the RPLMN is included in plmn-IdentityList stored in VarSuccessPSCell-Report; or
2>	if the UE has successful PSCell change or addition information available in VarSuccessPSCell-Report and if the current registered SNPN identity is included in snpn-IdentityList stored in the VarSuccessPSCell-Report:
3>	include successPSCell-InfoAvailable in the RRCResumeComplete message;
2>	if the UE has successful handover information available in VarSuccessHO-Report and if the RPLMN is included in plmn-IdentityList stored in VarSuccessHO-Report; or
2>	if the UE has successful handover information available in VarSuccessHO-Report and if the current registered SNPN identity is included in snpn-IdentityList stored in the VarSuccessHO-Report:
3>	include successHO-InfoAvailable in the RRCResumeComplete message;
2>	if the UE supports storage of mobility history information and the UE has mobility history information available in VarMobilityHistoryReport:
3>	include the mobilityHistoryAvail in the RRCResumeComplete message;
2>	if speedStateReselectionPars is configured in the SIB2:
3>	include the mobilityState in the RRCResumeComplete message and set it to the mobility state (as specified in TS 38.304 [20]) of the UE just prior to entering RRC_CONNECTED state;
2>	if the UE has at least one stored application layer measurement configuration with appLayerIdleInactiveConfig configured:
3>	include measConfigReportAppLayerAvailable in the RRCResumeComplete message;
2>	if the UE is configured to provide the measurement gap requirement information of NR target bands:
3>	include the NeedForGapsInfoNR and set the contents as follows:
4> include intraFreq-needForGap and set the gap requirement information of intra-frequency measurement for each NR serving cell;
4>	if requestedTargetBandFilterNR is configured, for each supported NR band that is also included in requestedTargetBandFilterNR, include an entry in interFreq-needForGap and set the gap requirement information for that band; otherwise, include an entry in interFreq-needForGap and set the corresponding gap requirement information for each supported NR band;
3>	if the needForInterruptionConfigNR is enabled:
4>	include the needForInterruptionInfoNR and set the contents as follows:
5>	include intraFreq-needForInterruption with the same number of entries, and listed in the same order, as in intraFreq-needForGap;
5> for each entry in intraFreq-needForInterruption:
6>	include interruptionIndication and set the interruption requirement information if the corresponding entry in intraFreq-needForGap is set to no-gap;
5>	include interFreq-needForInterruption with the same number of entries, and listed in the same order, as in interFreq-needForGap;
5>	for each entry in interFreq-needForInterruption:
6>	include interruptionIndication and set the interruption requirement information if the corresponding entry in interFreq-needForGap is set to no-gap;
2>	if the UE is configured to provide the measurement gap and NCSG requirement information of NR target bands:
3>	include the NeedForGapNCSG-InfoNR and set the contents as follows:
4> include intraFreq-needForNCSG and set the gap and NCSG requirement information of intra-frequency measurement for each NR serving cell;
4>	if requestedTargetBandFilterNCSG-NR is configured:
5>	for each supported NR band included in requestedTargetBandFilterNCSG-NR, include an entry in interFreq-needForNCSG and set the NCSG requirement information for that band;
4>	else:
5>	include an entry for each supported NR band in interFreq-needForNCSG and set the corresponding NCSG requirement information;
2>	if the UE is configured to provide the measurement gap and NCSG requirement information of EUTRA target bands:
3>	include the NeedForGapNCSG-InfoEUTRA and set the contents as follows:
4>	if requestedTargetBandFilterNCSG-EUTRA is configured:
5>	for each supported E-UTRA band included in requestedTargetBandFilterNCSG-EUTRA, include an entry in needForNCSG-EUTRA and set the NCSG requirement information for that band;
4>	else:
5>	include an entry for each supported E-UTRA band in needForNCSG-EUTRA and set the corresponding NCSG requirement information;
2>	if SIB1 contains musim-CapRestrictionAllowed:
3>	if supported, include the musim-CapRestrictionInd in the RRCResumeComplete message upon determining it has temporary capability restriction;
2>	if the UE has flight path information available:
3>	include flightPathInfoAvailable;
1>	submit the RRCResumeComplete message to lower layers for transmission;
1>	the procedure ends.
NOTE 2:	Network only configures at most one of reportUplinkTxDirectCurrent, reportUplinkTxDirectCurrentTwoCarrier or reportUplinkTxDirectCurrentMoreCarrier in one RRC message.
NOTE 3:	Upon reception of musim-CapRestrictionInd in RRCResumeComplete, it is up to network implementation to configure the UE with a limited configuration that is used until network sends RRCReconfiguration based on the actual restricted UE capabilities included in UEAssistanceInformation.
5.3.13.5	Handling of failure to resume RRC Connection
The UE shall:
1>	if timer T319 expires:
2>	if the UE supports multiple CEF report:
3>	if UE is not in SNPN access mode and if the UE has connection establishment failure information or connection resume failure information available in VarConnEstFailReport and if the RPLMN is equal to plmn-identity in networkIdentity stored in VarConnEstFailReport; or
3>	if the UE is in SNPN access mode and if the UE has connection establishment failure information or connection resume failure information available in VarConnEstFailReport and if the registered SNPN identity is equal to snpn-identity in networkIdentity stored in VarConnEstFailReport:
4>	if the cell identity of current cell is not equal to the cell identity stored in measResultFailedCell in VarConnEstFailReport and if the maxCEFReport-r17 has not been reached:
5>	append the VarConnEstFailReport as a new entry in the VarConnEstFailReportList;
2>	if the UE is not in SNPN access mode and if the UE has connection establishment failure information or connection resume failure information available in VarConnEstFailReport and if the RPLMN is not equal to plmn-identity stored in VarConnEstFailReport; or
2>	if the UE is in SNPN access mode and if the UE has connection establishment failure information or connection resume failure information available in VarConnEstFailReport and if the registered SNPN identity is not equal to snpn-identity in networkIdentity stored in VarConnEstFailReport; or
2>	if the cell identity of current cell is not equal to the cell identity stored in measResultFailedCell in VarConnEstFailReport:
3>	reset the numberOfConnFail to 0;
2>	if the UE supports multiple CEF report and if the UE has connection establishment failure information or connection resume failure information available in VarConnEstFailReportList and if the RPLMN is not equal to plmn-identity in networkIdentity stored in any entry of VarConnEstFailReportList:
2>	if the UE supports multiple CEF report and if the UE has connection establishment failure information or connection resume failure information available in VarConnEstFailReportList and if the registered SNPN identity is not equal to snpn-identity in networkIdentity stored in any entry of VarConnEstFailReportList:
3>	clear the content included in VarConnEstFailReportList;
2> clear the content included in VarConnEstFailReport except for the numberOfConnFail, if any;
2>	store the following connection resume failure information in the VarConnEstFailReport by setting its fields as follows:
3>	if the UE is not in SNPN access mode:
4>	set the plmn-Identity to the PLMN selected by upper layers (see TS 24.501 [23]) from the PLMN(s) included in the plmn-IdentityInfoList in SIB1;
3>	else if the UE is in SNPN access mode:
4>	set the snpn-Identity in networkIdentity to include the SNPN identity selected by upper layers (see TS 24.501 [23]) from the list of SNPN(s) included in the npn-IdentityInfoList in SIB1;
3>	set the measResultFailedCell to include the global cell identity, tracking area code, the cell level and SS/PBCH block level RSRP, and RSRQ, and SS/PBCH block indexes, of the failed cell based on the available SSB measurements collected up to the moment the UE detected connection resume failure;
3>	if available, set the measResultNeighCells, in order of decreasing ranking-criterion as used for cell re-selection, to include neighbouring cell measurements for at most the following number of neighbouring cells: 6 intra-frequency and 3 inter-frequency neighbours per frequency as well as 3 inter-RAT neighbours, per frequency/ set of frequencies per RAT and according to the following:
4>	for each neighbour cell included, include the optional fields that are available;
NOTE:	The UE includes the latest results of the available measurements as used for cell reselection evaluation, which are performed in accordance with the performance requirements as specified in TS 38.133 [14].
3>	if available, set the locationInfo as in 5.3.3.7;
3>	set perRAInfoList to indicate the performed random access procedure related information as specified in 5.7.10.5;
3>	if numberOfConnFail is smaller than 8:
4>	increment the numberOfConnFail by 1;
2>	perform the actions upon going to RRC_IDLE as specified in 5.3.11 with release cause 'RRC Resume failure'.
1>	else if upon receiving integrity check failure indication from lower layers while T319 is running:
2>	perform the actions upon going to RRC_IDLE as specified in 5.3.11 with release cause 'RRC Resume failure'.
1>	else if indication from the MCG RLC that the maximum number of retransmissions has been reached is received while SDT procedure is ongoing; or
1>	if random access problem indication is received from MCG MAC while SDT procedure is ongoing; or
1>	if the lower layers indicate that cg-SDT-TimeAlignmentTimer or the configuredGrantTimer expired before receiving network response for the UL CG-SDT transmission with CCCH message while SDT procedure is ongoing; or
1>	if integrity check failure indication is received from lower layers while SDT procedure is ongoing; or
1>	if T319a expires:
2>	consider SDT procedure is not ongoing;
2>	perform the actions upon going to RRC_IDLE as specified in 5.3.11 with release cause 'RRC Resume failure'.
The UE may discard the connection resume failure or connection establishment failure information, i.e. release the UE variable VarConnEstFailReport and the UE variable VarConnEstFailReportList, 48 hours after the last connection resume failure is detected.
The L2 U2N Relay UE either indicates to upper layers (to trigger PC5 unicast link release) or sends NotificationMessageSidelink message to the connected L2 U2N Remote UE(s) in accordance with 5.8.9.10.
5.3.13.6	Cell re-selection or cell selection or L2 U2N relay (re)selection while T390, T319 or T302 is running or SDT procedure is ongoing (UE in RRC_INACTIVE) or SRS transmission in RRC_INACTIVE is configured
The UE shall:
1>	if cell reselection occurs while T319 or T302 is running or while SDT procedure is ongoing; or
1>	if relay (re)selection or cell selection by a L2 U2N Remote UE occurs while T319 is running; or
1>	if cell changes due to relay reselection or cell selection by a L2 U2N Remote UE while T302 is running:
2>	perform the actions upon going to RRC_IDLE as specified in 5.3.11 with release cause 'RRC Resume failure';
1>	else if cell selection or reselection occurs while T390 is running, or cell change due to relay selection or reselection occurs while T390 is running:
2>	stop T390 for all access categories;
2>	perform the actions as specified in 5.3.14.4.
1>	else if cell reselection occurs when srs-PosRRC-Inactive is configured:
2>	indicate to the lower layer to stop inactivePosSRS-TimeAlignmentTimer;
2>	release the srs-PosRRC-Inactive.
1>	else if cell reselection occurs when srs-PosRRC-InactiveValidityAreaPreConfigList or srs-PosRRC-InactiveValidityAreaNonPreConfig is configured and if there is an on-going SRS for positioning transmission procedure in RRC_INACTIVE:
2>	if the selected cell is not included in the srs-PosConfigValidityArea:
3>	indicate to the lower layer to stop inactivePosSRS-ValidityAreaTAT;
3>	initiate RRC connection resume procedure in 5.3.13.2;
2>	else if the cell is included in the srs-PosConfigValidityArea:
3>	if the selected cell and the previously camped cell are in the same srs-PosConfigValidityArea:
4>	if autonomousTA-AdjustmentEnabled is configured and if the Timing Advance validation requirements specified in clause 5.6.6.3 of TS 38.133 [14] is met:
5>	indicate to the lower layer to update Timing Advance and stored RSRP;
4>	instruct lower layers to continue transmitting SRS if Timing Advance validation condition as specified in TS 38.321 [3] are satisfied;
3>	if the selected cell and previously camped cell are in the different srs-PosConfigValidityArea:
4>	initiate RRC connection resume procedure in 5.3.13.2;
4>	indicate to the lower layer to stop inactivePosSRS-ValidityAreaTAT.
5.3.13.7	Reception of the RRCSetup by the UE
The UE shall:
1>	perform the RRC connection setup procedure as specified in 5.3.3.4.
5.3.13.8	RNA update
In RRC_INACTIVE state, the UE shall:
1>	if T380 expires; or
1>	if RNA Update is triggered at reception of SIB1, as specified in 5.2.2.4.2:
2>	if T319 is not running and SDT procedure is not ongoing:
3>	initiate RRC connection resume procedure in 5.3.13.2 with resumeCause set to rna-Update;
1>	if barring is alleviated for Access Category '8' or Access Category '2', as specified in 5.3.14.4:
2>	if upper layers do not request RRC the resumption of an RRC connection, and
2>	if the variable pendingRNA-Update is set to true:
3>	initiate RRC connection resume procedure in 5.3.13.2 with resumeCause value set to rna-Update.
If the UE in RRC_INACTIVE state fails to find a suitable cell and camps on the acceptable cell to obtain limited service as defined in TS 38.304 [20], the UE shall:
1>	perform the actions upon going to RRC_IDLE as specified in 5.3.11 with release cause 'other'.
NOTE:	It is left to UE implementation how to behave when T380 expires while the UE is camped neither on a suitable nor on an acceptable cell.
5.3.13.9	Reception of the RRCRelease by the UE
The UE shall:
1>	perform the actions as specified in 5.3.8.
5.3.13.10	Reception of the RRCReject by the UE
The UE shall:
1>	perform the actions as specified in 5.3.15.
5.3.13.11	Inability to comply with RRCResume
The UE shall:
1>	if the UE is unable to comply with (part of) the configuration included in the RRCResume message;
2>	perform the actions upon going to RRC_IDLE as specified in 5.3.11 with release cause ′RRC Resume failure′.
NOTE 1:	The UE may apply above failure handling also in case the RRCResume message causes a protocol error for which the generic error handling as defined in 10 specifies that the UE shall ignore the message.
NOTE 2:	If the UE is configured (i.e., via SIB1) to send MUSIM temporary capability restriction indication, and if the UE supports MUSIM temporary capability restriction, the UE does not apply above failure handling in case the UE is unable to apply (part of) the configuration resulting from RRCResume message due to UE temporary capability restriction for MUSIM operation. If UE does not go to RRC_IDLE in this case, UE still considers the configuration resulting from the RRCResume message as the current configuration as the baseline for delta configuration for future reconfigurations. It is up to UE implementation how to apply RRCResume message. For other cases, if the UE is unable to comply with part of the configuration, it does not apply any (part of) the configuration, i.e. there is no partial success/failure.
5.3.13.12	Inter RAT cell reselection
Upon reselecting to an inter-RAT cell, the UE shall:
1>	perform the actions upon going to RRC_IDLE as specified in 5.3.11, with release cause 'other'.
5.3.14	Unified Access Control
5.3.14.1	General
The purpose of this procedure is to perform access barring check for an access attempt associated with a given Access Category and one or more Access Identities upon request from upper layers according to TS 24.501 [23] or the RRC layer. This procedure does not apply to IAB-MT and NCR-MT. This procedure does not apply to L2 U2N Relay UE initiating RRC connection establishment or RRC connection resume upon reception of any message from a L2 U2N remote UE via SL-RLC0 or SL-RLC1 in accordance to 5.3.3.1a or 5.3.13.1a.
After a PCell change in RRC_CONNECTED the UE shall defer access barring checks until it has obtained SIB1 (as specified in 5.2.2.2) from the target cell.
5.3.14.2	Initiation
Upon initiation of the procedure, the UE shall:
1>	if timer T390 is running for the Access Category:
2>	consider the access attempt as barred;
1>	else if timer T302 is running:
2>	if the Access Category is neither '2' nor '0'; or
2>	if the Access Category is '0' for RRC resumption triggered by multicast reception as specified in 5.3.13.2:
3>	consider the access attempt as barred;
1>	else:
2>	if the Access Category is '0':
3>	consider the access attempt as allowed;
2>	else:
3>	if SIB1 includes uac-BarringPerPLMN-List that contains a UAC-BarringPerPLMN for the selected PLMN or SNPN:
4>	if the procedure in 5.2.2.4.2 for a selected PLMN resulted in use of information in npn-IdentityInfoList and UAC-BarringPerPLMN has an entry with the plmn-IdentityIndex corresponding to used information in this list:
5>	select the UAC-BarringPerPLMN entry with the plmn-IdentityIndex corresponding to used information in the npn-IdentityInfoList;
4>	else:
5>	select the UAC-BarringPerPLMN entry with the plmn-IdentityIndex corresponding to the selected PLMN and the PLMN-IdentityInfo, if any, or the selected SNPN and the npn-IdentityInfoList;
3>	if any UAC-BarringPerPLMN entry is selected:
4>	in the remainder of this procedure, use the selected UAC-BarringPerPLMN entry (i.e. presence or absence of access barring parameters in this entry) irrespective of the uac-BarringForCommon included in SIB1;
3>	else if SIB1 includes uac-BarringForCommon:
4>	in the remainder of this procedure use the uac-BarringForCommon (i.e. presence or absence of these parameters) included in SIB1;
3>	else:
4>	consider the access attempt as allowed;
3>	if uac-BarringForCommon is applicable or the uac-ACBarringListType indicates that uac-ExplicitACBarringList is used:
4>	if the corresponding UAC-BarringPerCatList contains a UAC-BarringPerCat entry corresponding to the Access Category:
5>	select the UAC-BarringPerCat entry;
5>	if the uac-BarringInfoSetList contains a UAC-BarringInfoSet entry corresponding to the selected uac-barringInfoSetIndex in the UAC-BarringPerCat:
6>	select the UAC-BarringInfoSet entry;
6>	perform access barring check for the Access Category as specified in 5.3.14.5, using the selected UAC-BarringInfoSet as "UAC barring parameter";
5>	else:
6>	consider the access attempt as allowed;
4>	else:
5>	consider the access attempt as allowed;
3>	else if the uac-ACBarringListType indicates that uac-ImplicitACBarringList is used:
4>	select the uac-BarringInfoSetIndex corresponding to the Access Category in the uac-ImplicitACBarringList;
4>	if the uac-BarringInfoSetList contains the UAC-BarringInfoSet entry corresponding to the selected uac-BarringInfoSetIndex:
5>	select the UAC-BarringInfoSet entry;
5>	perform access barring check for the Access Category as specified in 5.3.14.5, using the selected UAC-BarringInfoSet as "UAC barring parameter";
4>	else:
5>	consider the access attempt as allowed;
3>	else:
4>	consider the access attempt as allowed;
1>	if the access barring check was requested by upper layers:
2>	if the access attempt is considered as barred:
3>	if timer T302 is running:
4>	if timer T390 is running for Access Category '2':
5>	inform the upper layer that access barring is applicable for all access categories except categories '0', upon which the procedure ends;
4>	else
5>	inform the upper layer that access barring is applicable for all access categories except categories '0' and '2', upon which the procedure ends;
3>	else:
4>	inform upper layers that the access attempt for the Access Category is barred, upon which the procedure ends;
2>	else:
3>	inform upper layers that the access attempt for the Access Category is allowed, upon which the procedure ends;
1>	else:
2>	the procedure ends.
5.3.14.3	Void
5.3.14.4	T302, T390 expiry or stop (Barring alleviation)
The UE shall:
1>	if timer T302 expires or is stopped:
2>	for each Access Category for which T390 is not running:
3>	consider the barring for this Access Category to be alleviated:
1>	else if timer T390 corresponding to an Access Category other than '2' expires or is stopped, and if timer T302 is not running:
2>	consider the barring for this Access Category to be alleviated;
1>	else if timer T390 corresponding to the Access Category '2' expires or is stopped:
2>	consider the barring for this Access Category to be alleviated;
1>	when barring for an Access Category is considered being alleviated:
2>	if the Access Category was informed to upper layers as barred:
3>	inform upper layers about barring alleviation for the Access Category.
2>	else if the Access Category is Access Category '0' for RRC resumption triggered by multicast reception as specified in 5.3.13.2:
3>	perform actions specified in 5.3.13.1d;
2>	if barring is alleviated for Access Category '8'; or
2>	if barring is alleviated for Access Category '2':
3>	perform actions specified in 5.3.13.8;
5.3.14.5	Access barring check
The UE shall:
1>	if one or more Access Identities equal to 1, 2, 11, 12, 13, 14, or 15 are indicated according to TS 24.501 [23], and
1>	if for at least one of these Access Identities the corresponding bit in the uac-BarringForAccessIdentity contained in "UAC barring parameter" is set to zero:
2>	consider the access attempt as allowed;
1>	else:
2>	if the establishment of the RRC connection is the result of release with redirect with mpsPriorityIndication (either in NR or E-UTRAN); and
2>	if the bit corresponding to Access Identity 1 in the uac-BarringForAccessIdentity contained in the "UAC barring parameter" is set to zero:
3>	consider the access attempt as allowed;
2>	else if Access Identity 3 is indicated:
3>	draw a random number 'rand' uniformly distributed in the range: 0 ≤ rand < 1;
3>	if 'rand' is lower than the value indicated by uac-BarringFactorForAI3 included in "UAC barring parameter":
4>	consider the access attempt as allowed;
3>	else:
4>	consider the access attempt as barred;
2>	else:
3>	draw a random number 'rand' uniformly distributed in the range: 0 ≤ rand < 1;
3>	if 'rand' is lower than the value indicated by uac-BarringFactor included in "UAC barring parameter":
4>	consider the access attempt as allowed;
3>	else:
4>	consider the access attempt as barred;
1>	if the access attempt is considered as barred:
2>	draw a random number 'rand' that is uniformly distributed in the range 0 ≤ rand < 1;
2>	start timer T390 for the Access Category with the timer value calculated as follows, using the uac-BarringTime included in "UAC barring parameter":
	T390 = (0.7+ 0.6 * rand) * uac-BarringTime.
5.3.15	RRC connection reject
5.3.15.1	Initiation
The UE initiates the procedure upon the reception of RRCReject when the UE tries to establish or resume an RRC connection.
5.3.15.2	Reception of the RRCReject by the UE
The UE shall:
1>	stop timer T300, if running;
1>	stop timer T319, if running;
1>	stop timer T319a, if running and consider SDT procedure is not ongoing;
1>	stop timer T302, if running;
1>	reset MAC and release the default MAC Cell Group configuration (except if the RRCReject is received in response to resuming RRC connection for multicast reception);
1>	if waitTime is configured in the RRCReject:
2>	start timer T302, with the timer value set to the waitTime;
1>	if RRCReject is received in response to a request from upper layers:
2>	inform the upper layer that access barring is applicable for all access categories except categories '0' and '2';
1>	if RRCReject is received in response to an RRCSetupRequest:
2>	inform upper layers about the failure to setup the RRC connection, upon which the procedure ends;
1>	else if RRCReject is received in response to an RRCResumeRequest or an RRCResumeRequest1:
2>	if resume is triggered by upper layers:
3>	inform upper layers about the failure to resume the RRC connection;
2>	if resume is triggered due to an RNA update; or
2>	if resume is triggered for SDT and T380 has expired:
3>	set the variable pendingRNA-Update to true;
2>	discard the current KgNB key, the KRRCenc key, the KRRCint key, the KUPint key and the KUPenc key derived in accordance with 5.3.13.3;
2>	if resume is triggered for SDT:
3>	for SRB2, if it is resumed and for SRB1:
4>	trigger the PDCP entity to perform SDU discard as specified in TS 38.323 [5];
4>	re-establish the RLC entity as specified in TS 38.322 [4];
3>	for each DRB that is not suspended:
4>	indicate PDCP suspend to lower layers;
4>	re-establish the RLC entity as specified in TS 38.322 [4];
2>	suspend SRB1 and the radio bearers configured for SDT, if any;
2>	the procedure ends.
Upon L2 U2N Relay UE receives RRCReject, it either indicates to upper layers (to trigger PC5 unicast link release) or sends NotificationMessageSidelink message to the connected L2 U2N Remote UE(s) in accordance with 5.8.9.10.
The RRC_INACTIVE UE shall continue to monitor paging while the timer T302 is running.
NOTE:	If timer T331 is running, the UE continues to perform idle/inactive measurements according to 5.7.8.
5.4	Inter-RAT mobility
5.4.1	Introduction
Network controlled inter-RAT mobility between NR and E-UTRA, where E-UTRA can be connected to either EPC or 5GC, and from NR to UTRA-FDD is supported.
5.4.2	Handover to NR
5.4.2.1	General

Figure 5.4.2.1-1: Handover to NR, successful
The purpose of this procedure is to, under the control of the network, transfer a connection between the UE and another Radio Access Network (e.g. E-UTRAN) to NR.
The handover to NR procedure applies when SRBs, possibly in combination with DRBs, are established in another RAT. Handover from E-UTRA to NR applies only after integrity has been activated in E-UTRA.
5.4.2.2	Initiation
The RAN using another RAT initiates the handover to NR procedure, in accordance with the specifications applicable for the other RAT, by sending the RRCReconfiguration message via the radio access technology from which the inter-RAT handover is performed.
The network applies the procedure as follows:
-	to activate ciphering, possibly using NULL algorithm, if not yet activated in the other RAT;
-	to re-establish SRBs and one or more DRBs;
5.4.2.3	Reception of the RRCReconfiguration by the UE
The UE shall:
1>	apply the default L1 parameter values as specified in corresponding physical layer specifications except for the parameters for which values are provided in SIB1;
1>	apply the default MAC Cell Group configuration as specified in 9.2.2;
1>	perform RRC reconfiguration procedure as specified in 5.3.5;
NOTE:	If the UE is connected to 5GC of the source E-UTRA cell, the delta configuration for PDCP and SDAP can be used for intra-system inter-RAT handover. For other cases, source RAT configuration is not considered when the UE applies the reconfiguration message of target RAT.
5.4.3	Mobility from NR
5.4.3.1	General

Figure 5.4.3.1-1: Mobility from NR, successful

Figure 5.4.3.1-2: Mobility from NR, failure
The purpose of this procedure is to move a UE in RRC_CONNECTED to a cell using other RAT, e.g. E-UTRA, UTRA-FDD. The mobility from NR procedure covers the following type of mobility:
-	handover, i.e. the MobilityFromNRCommand message includes radio resources that have been allocated for the UE in the target cell;
5.4.3.2	Initiation
The network initiates the mobility from NR procedure to a UE in RRC_CONNECTED, possibly in response to a MeasurementReport or an MCGFailureInformation message, by sending a MobilityFromNRCommand message. The network applies the procedure as follows:
-	the procedure is initiated only when AS security has been activated, and SRB2 with at least one DRB or multicast MRB have been setup and not suspended;
-	the procedure is not initiated if any DAPS bearer is configured;
5.4.3.3	Reception of the MobilityFromNRCommand by the UE
The UE shall:
1>	stop timer T310, if running;
1>	stop timer T312, if running;
1>	if T316 is running:
2>	stop timer T316;
2>	if the UE supports RLF-Report for fast MCG recovery procedure as specified in 38.306 [26]:
3>	set the elapsedTimeT316 in the VarRLF-Report to the value of the elapsed time of the timer T316;
3>	set the pSCellId in the VarRLF-Report to the global cell identity of the PSCell, if available, otherwise to the physical cell identity and carrier frequency of the PSCell;
2>	else:
3>	clear the information included in VarRLF-Report, if any;
1>	if T390 is running:
2>	stop timer T390 for all access categories;
2>	perform the actions as specified in 5.3.14.4;
1>	if the targetRAT-Type is set to eutra:
2>	consider inter-RAT mobility as initiated towards E-UTRA;
2>	forward the nas-SecurityParamFromNR to the upper layers, if included;
1>	else if the targetRAT-Type is set to utra-fdd:
2>	consider inter-RAT mobility as initiated towards UTRA-FDD;
2>	forward the nas-SecurityParamFromNR to the upper layers, if included;
1>	access the target cell indicated in the inter-RAT message in accordance with the specifications of the target RAT.
5.4.3.4	Successful completion of the mobility from NR
Upon successfully completing the handover, at the source side the UE shall:
1>	if T316 was not running at the time of receiving MobilityFromNRCommand and if the UE was configured with successHO-Config when connected to the source PCell and the targetRAT-Type is set to eutra:
2>	perform the actions for the successful handover report determination for inter-RAT handover as specified in clause 5.7.10.6.
1>	reset MAC;
1>	stop all timers that are running except T325, T330 and T400;
1>	release ran-NotificationAreaInfo, if stored;
1>	release the AS security context including the KRRCenc key, the KRRCint key, the KUPint key and the KUPenc key, if stored;
1>	release all radio resources, including release of the RLC entity and the MAC configuration;
1>	release the associated PDCP entity and SDAP entity for all established RBs;
NOTE :	PDCP and SDAP configured by the source RAT prior to the handover that are reconfigured and re-used by target RAT when delta signalling (i.e., during inter-RAT intra-system handover when fullConfig is not present) is used, are not released as part of this procedure.
1>	if the UE is configured with any application layer measurement configuration:
2>	inform upper layers about the release of all application layer measurement configurations;
2>	release all application layer measurement configurations including their fields in UE variables VarAppLayerIdleConfig and VarAppLayerPLMN-ListConfig;
2>	discard any application layer measurement reports which were not yet fully submitted to lower layers for transmission;
2>	consider itself not to be configured to send application layer measurement reports;
1>	if the targetRAT-Type is set to eutra and the nas-SecurityParamFromNR is included: or
1>	if the targetRAT-Type is set to utra-fdd:
2>	indicate the release of the RRC connection to upper layers together with the release cause 'other'.
5.4.3.5	Mobility from NR failure
The UE shall:
1>	if the UE does not succeed in establishing the connection to the target radio access technology:
2>	if the targetRAT-Type in the received MobilityFromNRCommand is set to eutra and the UE supports Radio Link Failure Report for Inter-RAT MRO EUTRA:
3>	store handover failure information in VarRLF-Report according to 5.3.10.5;
2>	if voiceFallbackIndication is included in the MobilityFromNRCommand message; or
2>	if the mobility from NR procedure is for emergency services fallback as specified in TS 23.502 [43]:
3>	attempt to select an E-UTRA cell:
4>	if a suitable E-UTRA cell is selected; or
4>	if no suitable E-UTRA cell is available and an acceptable E-UTRA cell supporting emergency call is selected when the UE has an ongoing emergency call:
5>	perform the actions upon going to RRC_IDLE as specified in 5.3.11, with release cause 'RRC connection failure';
4>	else:
5>	revert back to the configuration used in the source PCell;
5>	initiate the connection re-establishment procedure as specified in clause 5.3.7;
NOTE:	It is left to UE implementation to determine whether the mobility from NR procedure is for emergency services fallback as specified in TS 23.502 [43].
2>	else:
3>	revert back to the configuration used in the source PCell;
3>	initiate the connection re-establishment procedure as specified in clause 5.3.7;
1>	else if the UE is unable to comply with any part of the configuration included in the MobilityFromNRCommand message; or
1>	if there is a protocol error in the inter RAT information included in the MobilityFromNRCommand message, causing the UE to fail the procedure according to the specifications applicable for the target RAT:
2>	if the targetRAT-Type in the received MobilityFromNRCommand is set to eutra and the UE supports Radio Link Failure Report for Inter-RAT MRO EUTRA:
3>	store handover failure information in VarRLF-Report according to 5.3.10.5;
2>	revert back to the configuration used in the source PCell;
2>	initiate the connection re-establishment procedure as specified in clause 5.3.7.
5.5	Measurements
5.5.1	Introduction
The network may configure an RRC_CONNECTED UE to perform measurements. The network may configure the UE to report them in accordance with the measurement configuration or perform conditional reconfiguration evaluation in accordance with the conditional reconfiguration. The measurement configuration is provided by means of dedicated signalling i.e. using the RRCReconfiguration or RRCResume.
The network may configure the UE to perform the following types of measurements:
-	NR measurements;
-	Inter-RAT measurements of E-UTRA frequencies;
-	Inter-RAT measurements of UTRA-FDD frequencies;
-	NR sidelink measurements of L2 U2N Relay UEs.
The network may configure the UE to report the following measurement information based on SS/PBCH block(s):
-	Measurement results per SS/PBCH block;
-	Measurement results per cell based on SS/PBCH block(s);
-	SS/PBCH block(s) indexes.
The network may configure the UE to report the following measurement information based on CSI-RS resources:
-	Measurement results per CSI-RS resource;
-	Measurement results per cell based on CSI-RS resource(s);
-	CSI-RS resource measurement identifiers.
The network may configure the UE to perform the following types of measurements for NR sidelink and V2X sidelink:
-	CBR measurements.
The network may configure the UE to report the following CLI measurement information based on SRS resources:
-	Measurement results per SRS resource;
-	SRS resource(s) indexes.
The network may configure the UE to report the following CLI measurement information based on CLI-RSSI resources:
-	Measurement results per CLI-RSSI resource;
-	CLI-RSSI resource(s) indexes.
The network may configure the UE to report the following Rx-Tx time difference measurement information based on CSI-RS for tracking or PRS:
-	UE Rx-Tx time difference measurement result.
The measurement configuration includes the following parameters:
1.	Measurement objects: A list of objects on which the UE shall perform the measurements.
-	For intra-frequency and inter-frequency measurements a measurement object indicates the frequency/time location and subcarrier spacing of reference signals to be measured. Associated with this measurement object, the network may configure a list of cell specific offsets, a list of 'exclude-listed' cells and a list of 'allow-listed' cells. Exclude-listed cells are not applicable in event evaluation or measurement reporting. Allow-listed cells are the only ones applicable in event evaluation or measurement reporting.
-	The measObjectId of the MO which corresponds to each serving cell is indicated by servingCellMO within the serving cell configuration.
-	For inter-RAT E-UTRA measurements a measurement object is a single E-UTRA carrier frequency. Associated with this E-UTRA carrier frequency, the network can configure a list of cell specific offsets and a list of 'exclude-listed' cells. Exclude-listed cells are not applicable in event evaluation or measurement reporting.
-	For inter-RAT UTRA-FDD measurements a measurement object is a set of cells on a single UTRA-FDD carrier frequency.
-	For NR sidelink measurements of L2 U2N Relay UEs, a measurement object is a single NR sidelink frequency to be measured.
-	For CBR measurement of NR sidelink communication, a measurement object is a set of transmission resource pool(s) on a single carrier frequency for NR sidelink communication.
-	For CBR measurement of NR sidelink discovery, a measurement object is a set of discovery dedicated resource pool(s) or transmission resource pool(s) also used for NR sidelink discovery on a single carrier frequency for NR sidelink discovery.
-	For CBR measurement of NR sidelink positioning, a measurement object is a set of positioning dedicated resource pool(s) or transmission resource pool(s) also used for NR sidelink positioning on a single carrier frequency for NR sidelink positioning.
-	For CLI measurements a measurement object indicates the frequency/time location of SRS resources and/or CLI-RSSI resources, and subcarrier spacing of SRS resources to be measured.
2.	Reporting configurations: A list of reporting configurations where there can be one or multiple reporting configurations per measurement object. Each measurement reporting configuration consists of the following:
-	Reporting criterion: The criterion that triggers the UE to send a measurement report. This can either be periodical or a single event description.
-	RS type: The RS that the UE uses for beam and cell measurement results (SS/PBCH block or CSI-RS).
-	Reporting format: The quantities per cell and per beam that the UE includes in the measurement report (e.g. RSRP) and other associated information such as the maximum number of cells and the maximum number beams per cell to report.
In case of conditional reconfiguration, each configuration consists of the following:
-	Execution criteria: The criteria the UE uses for conditional reconfiguration execution.
-	RS type: The RS that the UE uses for obtaining beam and cell measurement results (SS/PBCH block-based or CSI-RS-based), used for evaluating conditional reconfiguration execution condition.
3.	Measurement identities: For measurement reporting, a list of measurement identities where each measurement identity links one measurement object with one reporting configuration. By configuring multiple measurement identities, it is possible to link more than one measurement object to the same reporting configuration, as well as to link more than one reporting configuration to the same measurement object. The measurement identity is also included in the measurement report that triggered the reporting, serving as a reference to the network. For conditional reconfiguration triggering, one measurement identity links to exactly one conditional reconfiguration trigger configuration. And up to 2 measurement identities can be linked to one conditional reconfiguration execution condition.
4.	Quantity configurations: The quantity configuration defines the measurement filtering configuration used for all event evaluation and related reporting, and for periodical reporting of that measurement. For NR measurements, the network may configure up to 2 quantity configurations with a reference in the NR measurement object to the configuration that is to be used. In each configuration, different filter coefficients can be configured for different measurement quantities, for different RS types, and for measurements per cell and per beam.
5.	Measurement gaps: Periods that the UE may use to perform measurements.
6.	Effective measurement window: Periods that the UE may use to perform inter RAT measurements.
A UE in RRC_CONNECTED maintains a measurement object list, a reporting configuration list, and a measurement identities list according to signalling and procedures in this specification. The measurement object list possibly includes NR measurement object(s), CLI measurement object(s), inter-RAT objects, and L2 U2N Relay objects. Similarly, the reporting configuration list includes NR, inter-RAT, and L2 U2N Relay reporting configurations. Any measurement object can be linked to any reporting configuration of the same RAT type. Some reporting configurations may not be linked to a measurement object. Likewise, some measurement objects may not be linked to a reporting configuration.
The measurement procedures distinguish the following types of cells:
1.	The NR serving cell(s) – these are the SpCell and one or more SCells.
2.	Listed cells – these are cells listed within the measurement object(s).
3.	Detected cells – these are cells that are not listed within the measurement object(s) but are detected by the UE on the SSB frequency(ies) and subcarrier spacing(s) indicated by the measurement object(s).
For NR measurement object(s), the UE measures and reports on the serving cell(s)/serving Relay UE (for L2 U2N Remote UE), listed cells and/or detected cells. For inter-RAT measurements object(s) of E-UTRA, the UE measures and reports on listed cells and detected cells and, for RSSI and channel occupancy measurements, the UE measures and reports on the configured resources on the indicated frequency. For inter-RAT measurements object(s) of UTRA-FDD, the UE measures and reports on listed cells. For CLI measurement object(s), the UE measures and reports on configured measurement resources (i.e. SRS resources and/or CLI-RSSI resources). For L2 U2N Relay object(s), the UE measures and reports on the serving NR cell(s), as well as the discovered L2 U2N Relay UEs.
Whenever the procedural specification, other than contained in clause 5.5.2, refers to a field it concerns a field included in the VarMeasConfig unless explicitly stated otherwise i.e. only the measurement configuration procedure covers the direct UE action related to the received measConfig.
In NR-DC, the UE may receive two independent measConfig:
-	a measConfig, associated with MCG, that is included in the RRCReconfiguration message received via SRB1; and
-	a measConfig, associated with SCG, that is included in the RRCReconfiguration message received via SRB3, or, alternatively, included within a RRCReconfiguration message embedded in a RRCReconfiguration message received via SRB1.
In this case, the UE maintains two independent VarMeasConfig and VarMeasReportList, one associated with each measConfig, and independently performs all the procedures in clause 5.5 for each measConfig and the associated VarMeasConfig and VarMeasReportList, unless explicitly stated otherwise.
The configurations related to CBR measurements are only included in the measConfig associated with MCG.
The configurations related to Rx-Tx time difference measurement are only included in the measConfig associated with MCG.
5.5.2	Measurement configuration
5.5.2.1	General
The network applies the procedure as follows:
-	to ensure that, whenever the UE has a measConfig associated with a CG, it includes a measObject for the SpCell and for each NR SCell of the CG to be measured;
-	to configure at most one measurement identity across all CGs using a reporting configuration with the reportType set to reportCGI;
-	to configure at most one measurement identity per the node hosting PDCP entity using a reporting configuration with the ul-DelayValueConfig;
-	to configure at most one measurement identity per the node hosting PDCP entity using a reporting configuration with the ul-ExcessDelayConfig;
-	to ensure that, in the measConfig associated with a CG:
-	for all SSB based measurements there is at most one measurement object with the same ssbFrequency;
-	an smtc1 included in any measurement object with the same ssbFrequency has the same value and that an smtc2 included in any measurement object with the same ssbFrequency has the same value and that an smtc3list included in any measurement object with the same ssbFrequency has the same value and that an smtc4list included in any measurement object with the same ssbFrequency has the same value;
-	to ensure that all measurement objects configured in this specification and in TS 36.331 [10] with the same ssbFrequency have the same ssbSubcarrierSpacing;
-	to ensure that, if a measurement object associated with the MCG has the same ssbFrequency as a measurement object associated with the SCG:
-	for that ssbFrequency, the measurement window according to the smtc1 configured by the MCG includes the measurement window according to the smtc1 configured by the SCG, or vice-versa, with an accuracy of the maximum receive timing difference specified in TS 38.133 [14].
-	if both measurement objects are used for RSSI measurements, bits in measurementSlots in both objects corresponding to the same slot are set to the same value. Also, the endSymbol is the same in both objects.
-	to ensure that, if a measurement object has the same ssbFrequency as a measurement object configured in TS 36.331 [10]:
-	for that ssbFrequency, the measurement window according to the smtc configured in TS 36.331 [10] includes the measurement window according to the smtc1 configured in TS 38.331, or vice-versa, with an accuracy of the maximum receive timing difference specified in TS 38.133 [14].
-	if both measurement objects are used for RSSI measurements, bits in measurementSlots in both objects corresponding to the same slot are set to the same value. Also, the endSymbol is the same in both objects.
-	when the UE is in NE-DC, NR-DC, or NR standalone, to configure at most one measurement identity across all CGs using a reporting configuration with the reportType set to reportSFTD;
For CSI-RS resources, the network applies the procedure as follows:
-	to ensure that all CSI-RS resources configured in each measurement object have the same center frequency, (startPRB+floor(nrofPRBs/2))
-	to ensure that the total number of CSI-RS resources configured in each measurement object does not exceed the maximum number specified in TS 38.214 [19].
The UE shall:
1>	if the received measConfig includes the measObjectToRemoveList:
2>	perform the measurement object removal procedure as specified in 5.5.2.4;
1>	if the received measConfig includes the measObjectToAddModList:
2>	perform the measurement object addition/modification procedure as specified in 5.5.2.5;
1>	if the received measConfig includes the reportConfigToRemoveList:
2>	perform the reporting configuration removal procedure as specified in 5.5.2.6;
1>	if the received measConfig includes the reportConfigToAddModList:
2>	perform the reporting configuration addition/modification procedure as specified in 5.5.2.7;
1>	if the received measConfig includes the quantityConfig:
2>	perform the quantity configuration procedure as specified in 5.5.2.8;
1>	if the received measConfig includes the measIdToRemoveList:
2>	perform the measurement identity removal procedure as specified in 5.5.2.2;
1>	if the received measConfig includes the measIdToAddModList:
2>	perform the measurement identity addition/modification procedure as specified in 5.5.2.3;
1>	if the received measConfig includes the measGapConfig:
2>	perform the measurement gap configuration procedure as specified in 5.5.2.9;
1>	if the received measConfig includes the measGapSharingConfig:
2>	perform the measurement gap sharing configuration procedure as specified in 5.5.2.11;
1>	if the received measConfig includes the s-MeasureConfig:
2>	if s-MeasureConfig is set to ssb-RSRP, set parameter ssb-RSRP of s-MeasureConfig within VarMeasConfig to the threshold value of the RSRP indicated by the received value of s-MeasureConfig which is derived as specified in 6.3.2;
2>	else, set parameter csi-RSRP of s-MeasureConfig within VarMeasConfig to the threshold value of the RSRP indicated by the received value of s-MeasureConfig which is derived as specified in 6.3.2.
1>	if the received measConfig includes the effectiveMeasWindowConfig:
2>	perform the effective measurement window configuration as specified in 5.5.2.12;
5.5.2.2	Measurement identity removal
The UE shall:
1>	for each measId included in the received measIdToRemoveList that is part of the current UE configuration in VarMeasConfig:
2>	remove the entry with the matching measId from the measIdList within the VarMeasConfig;
2>	remove the measurement reporting entry for this measId from the VarMeasReportList, if included;
2>	stop the periodical reporting timer or timer T321 or timer T322, whichever one is running, and reset the associated information (e.g. timeToTrigger) for this measId.
2>	if the reportType is set to reportOnScellActivation in the reportConfig associated with this measId:
3>	indicate to lower layer to disable the measurement reporting for fast unknown SCell activation.
NOTE:	The UE does not consider the message as erroneous if the measIdToRemoveList includes any measId value that is not part of the current UE configuration.
5.5.2.3	Measurement identity addition/modification
The network applies the procedure as follows:
-	configure a measId only if the corresponding measurement object, the corresponding reporting configuration and the corresponding quantity configuration, are configured.
The UE shall:
1>	for each measId included in the received measIdToAddModList:
2>	if an entry with the matching measId exists in the measIdList within the VarMeasConfig:
3>	replace the entry with the value received for this measId;
2>	else:
3>	add a new entry for this measId to the measIdList within the VarMeasConfig;
2>	remove the measurement reporting entry for this measId from the VarMeasReportList, if included;
2>	stop the periodical reporting timer or timer T321 or timer T322, whichever one is running, and reset the associated information (e.g. timeToTrigger) for this measId;
NOTE 1:	If the measId associated with reportConfig for conditional reconfiguration is modified, the conditions are considered to be not fulfilled as specified in 5.3.5.13.4.
2>	if the reportType is set to reportCGI in the reportConfig associated with this measId:
3>	if the measObject associated with this measId concerns E-UTRA:
4>	if the useAutonomousGaps is included in the reportConfig associated with this measId:
5>	start timer T321 with the timer value set to 200 ms for this measId;
4>	else:
5>	start timer T321 with the timer value set to 1 second for this measId;
3>	if the measObject associated with this measId concerns NR:
4>	if the measObject associated with this measId concerns FR1:
5>	if the useAutonomousGaps is included in the reportConfig associated with this measId:
6>	if the UE is an (e)RedCap UE with 1 Rx branch
7>	start timer T321 with the timer value set to 3 seconds for this measId;
6>	else
7>	start timer T321 with the timer value set to 2 seconds for this measId;
5>	else:
6>	start timer T321 with the timer value set to 2 seconds for this measId;
4>	if the measObject associated with this measId concerns FR2:
5>	if the useAutonomousGaps is included in the reportConfig associated with this measId:
6>	if the UE is a RedCap UE with 1 Rx branch
7>	start timer T321 with the timer value set to 6 seconds for this measId;
6>	else
7>	start timer T321 with the timer value set to 5 seconds for this measId;
5>	else:
6>	start timer T321 with the timer value set to 16 seconds for this measId.
2>	if the reportType is set to reportSFTD in the reportConfigNR associated with this measId and the drx-SFTD-NeighMeas is included:
3>	if the measObject associated with this measId concerns FR1:
4>	start timer T322 with the timer value set to 3 seconds for this measId;
3>	if the measObject associated with this measId concerns FR2:
4>	start timer T322 with the timer value set to 24 seconds for this measId.
2>	if the reportType is set to reportOnScellActivation in the reportConfig associated with this measId:
3>	indicate to lower layer to enable the measurement reporting for fast unknown SCell activation.
5.5.2.4	Measurement object removal
The UE shall:
1>	for each measObjectId included in the received measObjectToRemoveList that is part of measObjectList in VarMeasConfig:
2>	remove the entry with the matching measObjectId from the measObjectList within the VarMeasConfig;
2>	remove all measId associated with this measObjectId from the measIdList within the VarMeasConfig, if any;
2>	if a measId is removed from the measIdList:
3>	remove the measurement reporting entry for this measId from the VarMeasReportList, if included;
3>	stop the periodical reporting timer or timer T321 or timer T322, whichever is running, and reset the associated information (e.g. timeToTrigger) for this measId.
NOTE:	The UE does not consider the message as erroneous if the measObjectToRemoveList includes any measObjectId value that is not part of the current UE configuration.
5.5.2.5	Measurement object addition/modification
The UE shall:
1>	for each measObjectId included in the received measObjectToAddModList:
2>	if an entry with the matching measObjectId exists in the measObjectList within the VarMeasConfig, for this entry:
3>	reconfigure the entry with the value received for this measObject, except for the fields cellsToAddModList, excludedCellsToAddModList, allowedCellsToAddModList, cellsToRemoveList, excludedCellsToRemoveList, allowedCellsToRemoveList, tx-PoolMeasToRemoveList, tx-PoolMeasToAddModList, ssb-PositionQCL-CellsToRemoveList, ssb-PositionQCL-CellsToAddModList, cca-CellsToRemoveList, and cca-CellsToAddModList;
3>	if the received measObject includes the cellsToRemoveList:
4>	for each physCellId included in the cellsToRemoveList:
5>	remove the entry with the matching physCellId from the cellsToAddModList;
3>	if the received measObject includes the cellsToAddModList:
4>	for each physCellId value included in the cellsToAddModList:
5>	if an entry with the matching physCellId exists in the cellsToAddModList:
6>	replace the entry with the value received for this physCellId;
5>	else:
6>	add a new entry for the received physCellId to the cellsToAddModList;
3>	if the received measObject includes the excludedCellsToRemoveList:
4>	for each pci-RangeIndex included in the excludedCellsToRemoveList:
5>	remove the entry with the matching pci-RangeIndex from the excludedCellsToAddModList;
NOTE 1:	For each pci-RangeIndex included in the excludedCellsToRemoveList that concerns overlapping ranges of cells, a cell is removed from the exclude-list of cells only if all PCI ranges containing it are removed.
3>	if the received measObject includes the excludedCellsToAddModList:
4>	for each pci-RangeIndex included in the excludedCellsToAddModList:
5>	if an entry with the matching pci-RangeIndex is included in the excludedCellsToAddModList:
6>	replace the entry with the value received for this pci-RangeIndex;
5>	else:
6>	add a new entry for the received pci-RangeIndex to the excludedCellsToAddModList;
3>	if the received measObject includes the allowedCellsToRemoveList:
4>	for each pci-RangeIndex included in the allowedCellsToRemoveList:
5>	remove the entry with the matching pci-RangeIndex from the allowedCellsToAddModList;
NOTE2:	For each pci-RangeIndex included in the allowedCellsToRemoveList that concerns overlapping ranges of cells, a cell is removed from the allow-list of cells only if all PCI ranges containing it are removed.
3>	if the received measObject includes the allowedCellsToAddModList:
4>	for each pci-RangeIndex included in the allowedCellsToAddModList:
5>	if an entry with the matching pci-RangeIndex is included in the allowedCellsToAddModList:
6>	replace the entry with the value received for this pci-RangeIndex;
5>	else:
6>	add a new entry for the received pci-RangeIndex to the allowedCellsToAddModList
3>	for each measId associated with this measObjectId in the measIdList within the VarMeasConfig, if any:
4>	if the UE does not support Uplink PDCP delay measurements upon MO update; or
4>	if the UE supports Uplink PDCP delay measurements upon MO update and if ul-DelayValueConfig or ul-ExcessDelayConfig is not configured for the associated reportConfig:
5>	remove the measurement reporting entry for this measId from the VarMeasReportList, if included;
5>	stop the periodical reporting timer or timer T321 or timer T322, whichever one is running, and reset the associated information (e.g. timeToTrigger) for this measId;
3>	if the received measObject includes the tx-PoolMeasToRemoveList:
4>	for each transmission resource pool indicated in tx-PoolMeasToRemoveList:
5>	remove the entry with the matching identity of the transmission resource pool from the tx-PoolMeasToAddModList;
3>	if the received measObject includes the tx-PoolMeasToAddModList:
4>	for each transmission resource pool indicated in tx-PoolMeasToAddModList:
5>	if an entry with the matching identity of the transmission resource pool exists in the tx-PoolMeasToAddModList:
6>	replace the entry with the value received for this transmission resource pool;
5>	else:
6>	add a new entry for the received identity of the transmission resource pool to the tx-PoolMeasToAddModList;
3>	if the received measObject includes the ssb-PositionQCL-CellsToRemoveList:
4>	for each physCellId included in the ssb-PositionQCL-CellsToRemoveList:
5>	remove the entry with the matching physCellId from the ssb-PositionQCL-CellsToAddModList;
3>	if the received measObject includes the ssb-PositionQCL-CellsToAddModList:
4>	for each physCellId included in the ssb-PositionQCL-CellsToAddModList:
5>	if an entry with the matching physCellId exists in the ssb-PositionQCL-CellsToAddModList:
6>	replace the entry with the value received for this physCellId;
5>	else:
6>	add a new entry for the received physCellId to the ssb-PositionQCL-CellsToAddModList;
3>	if the received measObject includes the cca-CellsToRemoveList:
4>	for each physCellId included in the cca-CellsToRemoveList:
5>	remove the entry with the matching physCellId from the cca-CellsToAddModList;
3>	if the received measObject includes the cca-CellsToAddModList:
4>	for each physCellId included in the cca-CellsToAddModList:
5>	if an entry with the matching physCellId exists in the cca-CellsToAddModList:
6>	replace the entry with the value received for this physCellId;
5>	else:
6>	add a new entry for the received physCellId to the cca-CellsToAddModList;
2>	else:
3>	add a new entry for the received measObject to the measObjectList within VarMeasConfig.
5.5.2.6	Reporting configuration removal
The UE shall:
1>	for each reportConfigId included in the received reportConfigToRemoveList that is part of the current UE configuration in VarMeasConfig:
2>	remove the entry with the matching reportConfigId from the reportConfigList within the VarMeasConfig;
2>	remove all measId associated with the reportConfigId from the measIdList within the VarMeasConfig, if any;
2>	if a measId is removed from the measIdList:
3>	remove the measurement reporting entry for this measId from the VarMeasReportList, if included;
3>	stop the periodical reporting timer or timer T321 or timer T322, whichever one is running, and reset the associated information (e.g. timeToTrigger) for this measId.
NOTE:	The UE does not consider the message as erroneous if the reportConfigToRemoveList includes any reportConfigId value that is not part of the current UE configuration.
5.5.2.7	Reporting configuration addition/modification
The UE shall:
1>	for each reportConfigId included in the received reportConfigToAddModList:
2>	if an entry with the matching reportConfigId exists in the reportConfigList within the VarMeasConfig, for this entry:
3>	reconfigure the entry with the value received for this reportConfig;
3>	for each measId associated with this reportConfigId included in the measIdList within the VarMeasConfig, if any:
4>	remove the measurement reporting entry for this measId from the VarMeasReportList, if included;
4>	stop the periodical reporting timer or timer T321 or timer T322, whichever one is running, and reset the associated information (e.g. timeToTrigger) for this measId;
2>	else:
3>	add a new entry for the received reportConfig to the reportConfigList within the VarMeasConfig.
5.5.2.8	Quantity configuration
The UE shall:
1>	for each RAT for which the received quantityConfig includes parameter(s):
2>	set the corresponding parameter(s) in quantityConfig within VarMeasConfig to the value of the received quantityConfig parameter(s);
1>	for each measId included in the measIdList within VarMeasConfig:
2>	remove the measurement reporting entry for this measId from the VarMeasReportList, if included;
2>	stop the periodical reporting timer or timer T321 or timer T322, whichever one is running, and reset the associated information (e.g. timeToTrigger) for this measId.
5.5.2.9	Measurement gap configuration
The UE shall:
1>	if gapFR1 is set to setup:
2>	if an FR1 measurement gap configuration configured by gapFR1 is already setup, release the FR1 measurement gap configuration;
2>	setup the FR1 measurement gap configuration indicated by the gapFR1 in accordance with the received gapOffset, i.e., the first subframe of each gap occurs at an SFN and subframe meeting the following condition:
SFN mod T = FLOOR(gapOffset/10);
subframe = gapOffset mod 10;
with T = MGRP/10 as defined in TS 38.133 [14];
2>	apply the specified timing advance mgta to the gap occurrences calculated above (i.e. the UE starts the measurement mgta ms before the gap subframe occurrences);
1>	else if gapFR1 is set to release:
2>	release the FR1 measurement gap configuration configured by gapFR1;
1>	if gapFR2 is set to setup:
2>	if an FR2 measurement gap configuration configured by gapFR2 is already setup, release the FR2 measurement gap configuration;
2>	setup the FR2 measurement gap configuration indicated by the gapFR2 in accordance with the received gapOffset, i.e., the first subframe of each gap occurs at an SFN and subframe meeting the following condition:
SFN mod T = FLOOR(gapOffset/10);
subframe = gapOffset mod 10;
with T = MGRP/10 as defined in TS 38.133 [14];
2>	apply the specified timing advance mgta to the gap occurrences calculated above (i.e. the UE starts the measurement mgta ms before the gap subframe occurrences);
1>	else if gapFR2 is set to release:
2>	release the FR2 measurement gap configuration configured by gapFR2;
1>	if gapUE is set to setup:	
2>	if a per UE measurement gap configuration configured by gapUE is already setup, release the per UE measurement gap configuration;
2>	setup the per UE measurement gap configuration indicated by the gapUE in accordance with the received gapOffset, i.e., the first subframe of each gap occurs at an SFN and subframe meeting the following condition:
SFN mod T = FLOOR(gapOffset/10);
subframe = gapOffset mod 10;
with T = MGRP/10 as defined in TS 38.133 [14];
2>	apply the specified timing advance mgta to the gap occurrences calculated above (i.e. the UE starts the measurement mgta ms before the gap subframe occurrences);
1>	else if gapUE is set to release:
2>	release the per UE measurement gap configuration configured by gapUE.
1>	for each measGapId included in the received gapToReleaseList:
2>	release the measurement gap configuration associated with the measGapId;
1>	for each measPosPreConfigGapId included in the received posMeasGapPreConfigToReleaseList:
2>	release the measurement gap configuration associated with the measPosPreConfigGapId;
1>	for each GapConfig received in gapToAddModList:
2>	setup measurement gap configuration indicated by the GapConfig in accordance with the received gapOffset, i.e., the first subframe of each gap occurs at an SFN and subframe meeting the following condition:
SFN mod T = FLOOR(gapOffset/10);
subframe = gapOffset mod 10;
with T = MGRP/10 as defined in TS 38.133 [14];
2>	apply the specified timing advance mgta to the gap occurrences calculated above (i.e. the UE starts the measurement mgta ms before the gap subframe occurrences);
2>	apply the measurement gap as per UE measurement gap, FR1 measurement gap, or FR2 measurement gap according to the gapType indicated by the GapConfig;
2>	associate the measurement gap with the measGapId indicated by the GapConfig;
2>	if gapSharing in the GapConfig is present:
3>	setup the gap sharing configuration for the measurement gap in accordance with the received gapSharing as defined in TS 38.133 [14];
2>	else:
3>	release the gap sharing configuration (if configured) for the measurement gap;
1>	for each PosGapConfig received in PosMeasGapPreConfigToAddModList:
2>	if a measurement gap configuration associated with the measPosPreConfigGapId indicated by the PosGapConfig is already setup:
3>	release the measurement gap configuration;
2>	setup measurement gap configuration indicated by the PosGapConfig in accordance with the received gapOffset, i.e., the first subframe of each gap occurs at an SFN and subframe meeting the following condition:
SFN mod T = FLOOR(gapOffset/10);
subframe = gapOffset mod 10;
with T = MGRP/10 as defined in TS 38.133 [14];
2>	apply the specified timing advance mgta to the gap occurrences calculated above (i.e. the UE starts the measurement mgta ms before the gap subframe occurrences);
2>	configure the measurement gap as indicated by gapType;
1>	for each FR1, FR2, and per UE measurement gap that is setup:
2>	if the measurement gap is configured by GapConfig and preConfigInd-r17 in the corresponding GapConfig is present:
3>	determine whether the measurement gap is activated or not according to TS 38.133 [14];
2>	else if the measurement gap is configured by PosGapConfig:
3>	consider the measurement gap to be deactivated;
2>	else:
3>	consider the measurement gap to be activated.
NOTE 1:	For FR2 gap configuration with synchronous CA, for the UE in NE-DC or NR-DC, the SFN and subframe of the serving cell indicated by the refServCellIndicator is used in the gap calculation. Otherwise, the SFN and subframe of a serving cell on FR2 frequency is used in the gap calculation
NOTE 2:	For FR1 gap or per UE gap configuration, for the UE in NE-DC or NR-DC, the SFN and subframe of the serving cell indicated by the refServCellIndicator in is used in the gap calculation. Otherwise, the SFN and subframe of the PCell is used in the gap calculation.
NOTE 3:	For FR2 gap configuration with asynchronous CA, for the UE in NE-DC or NR-DC, the SFN and subframe of the serving cell indicated by the refServCellIndicator and refFR2ServCellAsyncCA is used in the gap calculation. Otherwise, the SFN and subframe of a serving cell on FR2 frequency indicated by the refFR2ServCellAsyncCA is used in the gap calculation
5.5.2.10	Reference signal measurement timing configuration
The UE shall setup the first SS/PBCH block measurement timing configuration (SMTC) in accordance with the received periodicityAndOffset parameter (providing Periodicity and Offset value for the following condition) in the SSB-MTC configuration. The first subframe of each SMTC occasion occurs at an SFN and subframe of the NR SpCell meeting the following condition:
SFN mod T = (FLOOR (Offset/10));
if the Periodicity is larger than sf5:
subframe = Offset mod 10;
else:
subframe = Offset or (Offset +5);
with T = CEIL(Periodicity/10).
If smtc2 is present, for cells indicated in the pci-List parameter in smtc2 in the same MeasObjectNR, the UE shall setup an additional SS/PBCH block measurement timing configuration (SMTC) in accordance with the received periodicity parameter in the smtc2 configuration and use the Offset (derived from parameter periodicityAndOffset) and duration parameter from the smtc1 configuration. The first subframe of each SMTC occasion occurs at an SFN and subframe of the NR SpCell meeting the above condition.
If smtc2-LP is present, for cells indicated in the pci-List parameter in smtc2-LP in the same frequency (for intra frequency cell reselection) or different frequency (for inter frequency cell reselection), the UE shall setup an additional SS/PBCH block measurement timing configuration (SMTC) in accordance with the received periodicity parameter in the smtc2-LP configuration and use the Offset (derived from parameter periodicityAndOffset) and duration parameter from the smtc configuration for that frequency. The first subframe of each SMTC occasion occurs at an SFN and subframe of the NR SpCell or serving cell (for cell reselection) meeting the above condition.
If smtc3list is present, for cells indicated in the pci-List parameter in each SSB-MTC3 element of the list in the same MeasObjectNR, the IAB-MT shall setup an additional SS block measurement timing configuration in accordance with the received periodicityAndOffset parameter (using same condition as smtc1 to identify the SFN and the subframe for SMTC occasion) in each SSB-MTC3 configuration and use the duration and ssb-ToMeasure parameters from each SSB-MTC3 configuration.
If smtc4list is present, for cells indicated in the pci-List parameter in each SSB-MTC4 element of the list in the same MeasObjectNR, the UE shall setup an additional SS/PBCH block measurement timing configuration (SMTC) in accordance with the received offset parameter in each SSB-MTC4 configuration and use the duration parameter and periodicity (derived from parameter periodicityAndOffset) from the smtc1 configuration. The first subframe of each SMTC occasion occurs at an SFN and subframe of the NR serving cell meeting the above condition.
On the indicated ssbFrequency, the UE shall not consider SS/PBCH block transmission in subframes outside the SMTC occasion for RRM measurements based on SS/PBCH blocks and for RRM measurements based on CSI-RS except for SFTD measurement (see TS 38.133 [14], clause 9.3.8).
5.5.2.10a	RSSI measurement timing configuration
The UE shall setup the RSSI measurement timing configuration (RMTC) in accordance with the received rmtc-Periodicity and, if configured, with rmtc-SubframeOffset i.e. the first symbol of each RMTC occasion occurs at first symbol of an SFN and subframe of the NR SpCell meeting the following condition:
SFN mod T = FLOOR(rmtc-SubframeOffset/10);
subframe = rmtc-SubframeOffset mod 10;
with T = rmtc-Periodicity/10;
On the frequency configured by rmtc-Frequency, the UE shall not consider RSSI measurements outside the configured RMTC occasion which lasts for measDurationSymbols for RSSI and channel occupancy measurements.
The UE derives the RSSI measurement duration from a combination of measDurationSymbols and ref-SCS-CP. At least for RSSI measurement confined within the active DL BWP, the UE performs RSSI measurement using the numerology of the active DL BWP during the derived measurement duration. Otherwise, the numerology used by the UE for measurements is up to UE implementation. If configured, the UE performs RSSI measurements on a bandwidth in accordance with the received rmtc-Bandwidth. If configured, the UE performs RSSI measurements according to the TCI state configured by tci-StateId in the reference BWP configured by ref-BWPId of the reference serving cell configured by ref-ServCellId (see TS 38.133 [14], clause 9.2A.7 and clause 9.3A.8).If the UE has no serving cell in FR2-2 and configured with inter-frequency RSSI measurement in FR2-2, it is up to the UE implementation how to determine the spatial domain filter for the inter-frequency RSSI measurement in FR2-2.
5.5.2.11	Measurement gap sharing configuration
The UE shall:
1>	if gapSharingFR1 is set to setup:
2>	if an FR1 measurement gap sharing configuration configured by gapSharingFR1 is already setup:
3>	release the FR1 measurement gap sharing configuration configured by gapSharingFR1;
2>	setup the FR1 measurement gap sharing configuration indicated by the measGapSharingConfig in accordance with the received gapSharingFR1 as defined in TS 38.133 [14];
1>	else if gapSharingFR1 is set to release:
2>	release the FR1 measurement gap sharing configuration configured by gapSharingFR1;
1>	if gapSharingFR2 is set to setup:
2>	if an FR2 measurement gap sharing configuration configured by gapSharingFR2 is already setup:
3>	release the FR2 measurement gap sharing configuration configured by gapSharingFR2;
2>	setup the FR2 measurement gap sharing configuration indicated by the measGapSharingConfig in accordance with the received gapSharingFR2 as defined in TS 38.133 [14];
1>	else if gapSharingFR2 is set to release:
2>	release the FR2 measurement gap sharing configuration configured by gapSharingFR2.
1>	if gapSharingUE is set to setup:
2>	if a per UE measurement gap sharing configuration configured by gapSharingUE is already setup:
3>	release the per UE measurement gap sharing configuration configured by gapSharingUE;
2>	setup the per UE measurement gap sharing configuration indicated by the measGapSharingConfig in accordance with the received gapSharingUE as defined in TS 38.133 [14];
1>	else if gapSharingUE is set to release:
2>	release the per UE measurement gap sharing configuration configured by gapSharingUE.
5.5.2.12	Effective measurement window configuration
The UE shall:
1>	if effectiveMeasWindowConfig is set to setup:
2>	if an effective measurement window configuration is already setup:
3>	release the effective measurement window configuration;
2>	setup an effective measurement window configuration indicated by the effectiveMeasWindowConfig in accordance with the received windowOffsetPeriodicity (providing periodicity and offset for the following condition), i.e., the first subframe of each window occurs at an SFN and subframe meeting the following condition:
SFN mod T = FLOOR(offset/10);
subframe = offset mod 10;
with T = periodicity/10;
1>	else if effectiveMeasWindowConfig is set to release:
2>	release the effective measurement window configuration;
NOTE:	The SFN and subframe of the PCell is used in the effective measurement window calculation.
5.5.3	Performing measurements
5.5.3.1	General
An RRC_CONNECTED UE shall derive cell measurement results by measuring one or multiple beams associated per cell as configured by the network, as described in 5.5.3.3. For all cell measurement results, except for RSSI, and CLI measurement results in RRC_CONNECTED, the UE applies the layer 3 filtering as specified in 5.5.3.2, before using the measured results for evaluation of reporting criteria, measurement reporting or the criteria to trigger conditional reconfiguration execution. For cell measurements, the network can configure RSRP, RSRQ, SINR, RSCP or EcN0 as trigger quantity. For CLI measurements, the network can configure SRS-RSRP or CLI-RSSI as trigger quantity. For cell and beam measurements, reporting quantities can be any combination of quantities (i.e. only RSRP; only RSRQ; only SINR; RSRP and RSRQ; RSRP and SINR; RSRQ and SINR; RSRP, RSRQ and SINR; only RSCP; only EcN0; RSCP and EcN0), irrespective of the trigger quantity, and for CLI measurements, reporting quantities can be either SRS-RSRP or CLI-RSSI. For conditional reconfiguration execution, the network can configure up to 2 quantities, both using same RS type. The UE does not apply the layer 3 filtering as specified in 5.5.3.2 to derive the CBR measurements. The UE does not apply the layer 3 filtering as specified in 5.5.3.2 to derive the Rx-Tx time difference measurements. The UE does not apply the layer 3 filtering as specified in 5.5.3.2 to derive the altitude measurements.
The network may also configure the UE to report measurement information per beam (which can either be measurement results per beam with respective beam identifier(s) or only beam identifier(s)), derived as described in 5.5.3.3a. If beam measurement information is configured to be included in measurement reports, the UE applies the layer 3 beam filtering as specified in 5.5.3.2. On the other hand, the exact L1 filtering of beam measurements used to derive cell measurement results is implementation dependent.
The UE shall:
1>	whenever the UE has a measConfig, perform RSRP and RSRQ measurements for each serving cell for which servingCellMO is configured as follows:
2>	if the reportConfig associated with at least one measId included in the measIdList within VarMeasConfig contains an rsType set to ssb and ssb-ConfigMobility is configured in the measObject indicated by the servingCellMO, and absoluteFrequencySSB is configured in ServingCellConfigCommon:
3>	if the reportConfig contains a reportQuantityRS-Indexes and maxNrofRS-IndexesToReport:
4>	derive layer 3 filtered RSRP and RSRQ per beam for the serving cell based on SS/PBCH block, as described in 5.5.3.3a;
3>	derive serving cell measurement results based on SS/PBCH block, as described in 5.5.3.3;
2>	if the reportConfig associated with at least one measId included in the measIdList within VarMeasConfig contains an rsType set to csi-rs and CSI-RS-ResourceConfigMobility is configured in the measObject indicated by the servingCellMO:
3>	if the reportConfig contains a reportQuantityRS-Indexes and maxNrofRS-IndexesToReport:
4>	derive layer 3 filtered RSRP and RSRQ per beam for the serving cell based on CSI-RS, as described in 5.5.3.3a;
3>	derive serving cell measurement results based on CSI-RS, as described in 5.5.3.3;
1>	for each serving cell for which servingCellMO is configured, if the reportConfig associated with at least one measId included in the measIdList within VarMeasConfig contains SINR as trigger quantity and/or reporting quantity:
2>	if the reportConfig contains rsType set to ssb and ssb-ConfigMobility is configured in the servingCellMO, and absoluteFrequencySSB is configured in ServingCellConfigCommon:
3>	if the reportConfigcontains a reportQuantityRS-Indexes and maxNrofRS-IndexesToReport:
4>	derive layer 3 filtered SINR per beam for the serving cell based on SS/PBCH block, as described in 5.5.3.3a;
3>	derive serving cell SINR based on SS/PBCH block, as described in 5.5.3.3;
2>	if the reportConfig contains rsType set to csi-rs and CSI-RS-ResourceConfigMobility is configured in the servingCellMO:
3>	if the reportConfigcontains a reportQuantityRS-Indexes and maxNrofRS-IndexesToReport:
4>	derive layer 3 filtered SINR per beam for the serving cell based on CSI-RS, as described in 5.5.3.3a;
3>	derive serving cell SINR based on CSI-RS, as described in 5.5.3.3;
1>	for each measId included in the measIdList within VarMeasConfig:
2>	if the reportType for the associated reportConfig is set to reportCGI and timer T321 is running:
3>	if useAutonomousGaps is configured for the associated reportConfig:
4>	perform the corresponding measurements on the frequency and RAT indicated in the associated measObject using autonomous gaps as necessary;
3>	else:
4>	perform the corresponding measurements on the frequency and RAT indicated in the associated measObject using available idle periods;
3>	if the cell indicated by reportCGI field for the associated measObject is an NR cell and that indicated cell is broadcasting SIB1 (see TS 38.213 [13], clause 13):
4>	try to acquire SIB1 in the concerned cell;
3>	if the cell indicated by reportCGI field is an E-UTRA cell:
4>	try to acquire SystemInformationBlockType1 in the concerned cell;
2>	if the ul-DelayValueConfig is configured for the associated reportConfig:
3>	ignore the measObject;
3>	for each of the configured DRBs, configure the PDCP layer to perform corresponding average UL PDCP packet delay measurement per DRB;
2>	if the ul-ExcessDelayConfig is configured for the associated reportConfig:
3>	ignore the measObject;
3>	for each of the configured DRBs, configure the PDCP layer to perform corresponding UL PDCP Excess Packet Delay delay measurement according to the configured threshold per DRB;
2>	if the reportType for the associated reportConfig is periodical, eventTriggered; or
2>	if the reportType for the associated reportConfig is condTriggerConfig, the measId is within the MCG VarMeasConfig and is indicated in the condExecutionCond or in the condExecutionCondPSCell associated to a condReconfigId in the MCG VarConditionalReconfig (for CHO, CPA, MN-initiated inter-SN CPC, or subsequent CPAC in NR-DC); or
2>	if the reportType for the associated reportConfig is condTriggerConfig, the measId is within the SCG VarMeasConfig and is indicated in the condExecutionCond associated to a condReconfigId in the SCG VarConditionalReconfig (for intra-SN CPC or subsequent CPAC); or
2>	if the reportType for the associated reportConfig is condTriggerConfig, the measId is within the SCG VarMeasConfig and is indicated in the condExecutionCondSCG associated to a condReconfigId in the MCG VarConditionalReconfig (for SN-initiated inter-SN CPC or subsequent CPAC in NR-DC); or
2>	if the reportType for the associated reportConfig is condTriggerConfig, the measId is within the SCG VarMeasConfig and is indicated in the triggerConditionSN associated to a condReconfigurationId in VarConditionalReconfiguration as specified in TS 36.331 [10] (for SN-initiated inter-SN CPC in EN-DC):
3>	if a measurement gap configuration is setup, or
3>	if the UE does not require measurement gaps to perform the concerned measurements:
4>	if s-MeasureConfig is not configured, or
4>	if s-MeasureConfig is set to ssb-RSRP and the NR SpCell RSRP based on SS/PBCH block, after layer 3 filtering, is lower than ssb-RSRP, or
4>	if s-MeasureConfig is set to csi-RSRP and the NR SpCell RSRP based on CSI-RS, after layer 3 filtering, is lower than csi-RSRP:
5>	if the measObject is associated to NR and the rsType is set to csi-rs:
6>	if reportQuantityRS-Indexes and maxNrofRS-IndexesToReport for the associated reportConfig are configured:
7>	derive layer 3 filtered beam measurements only based on CSI-RS for each measurement quantity indicated in reportQuantityRS-Indexes, as described in 5.5.3.3a;
6>	derive cell measurement results based on CSI-RS for the trigger quantity and each measurement quantity indicated in reportQuantityCell using parameters from the associated measObject, as described in 5.5.3.3;
5>	if the measObject is associated to NR and the rsType is set to ssb:
6>	if reportQuantityRS-Indexes and maxNrofRS-IndexesToReport for the associated reportConfig are configured:
7>	derive layer 3 beam measurements only based on SS/PBCH block for each measurement quantity indicated in reportQuantityRS-Indexes, as described in 5.5.3.3a;
6>	derive cell measurement results based on SS/PBCH block for the trigger quantity and each measurement quantity indicated in reportQuantityCell using parameters from the associated measObject, as described in 5.5.3.3;
5>	if the measObject is associated to E-UTRA:
6>	perform the corresponding measurements associated to neighbouring cells on the frequencies indicated in the concerned measObject, as described in 5.5.3.2;
5>	if the measObject is associated to UTRA-FDD:
6>	perform the corresponding measurements associated to neighbouring cells on the frequencies indicated in the concerned measObject, as described in 5.5.3.2;
5>	if the measObject is associated to L2 U2N Relay UE:
6>	perform the corresponding measurements associated to candidate Relay UEs on the frequencies indicated in the concerned measObject, as described in 5.5.3.4;
4>	if the measRSSI-ReportConfig is configured in the associated reportConfig:
5>	perform the RSSI and channel occupancy measurements on the frequency configured by rmtc-Frequency in the associated measObject;
NOTE 0:	The network avoids configuring UEs supporting only CHO and/or Rel-16 CPC with measurements not referred to by any execution condition.
2>	if the reportType for the associated reportConfig is set to reportSFTD and the numberOfReportsSent as defined within the VarMeasReportList for this measId is less than one:
3>	if the reportSFTD-Meas is set to true:
4>	if the measObject is associated to E-UTRA:
5>	perform SFTD measurements between the PCell and the E-UTRA PSCell;
5>	if the reportRSRP is set to true;
6>	perform RSRP measurements for the E-UTRA PSCell;
4>	else if the measObject is associated to NR:
5>	perform SFTD measurements between the PCell and the NR PSCell;
5>	if the reportRSRP is set to true;
6>	perform RSRP measurements for the NR PSCell based on SSB;
3>	else if the reportSFTD-NeighMeas is included:
4>	if the measObject is associated to NR:
5>	if the drx-SFTD-NeighMeas is included:
6>	perform SFTD measurements between the PCell and the NR neighbouring cell(s) detected based on parameters in the associated measObject using available idle periods;
5>	else:
6>	perform SFTD measurements between the PCell and the NR neighbouring cell(s) detected based on parameters in the associated measObject;
5>	if the reportRSRP is set to true:
6>	perform RSRP measurements based on SSB for the NR neighbouring cell(s) detected based on parameters in the associated measObject;
2>	if the reportType for the associated reportConfig is cli-Periodical or cli-EventTriggered:
3>	perform the corresponding measurements associated to CLI measurement resources indicated in the concerned measObjectCLI;
2>	perform the evaluation of reporting criteria as specified in 5.5.4, except if reportConfig is condTriggerConfig.
NOTE 1:	The evaluation of conditional reconfiguration execution criteria is specified in 5.3.5.13.
The UE acting as a L2 U2N Remote UE whenever configured with measConfig shall:
1>	perform the corresponding measurements associated to the serving L2 U2N Relay UE, as described in 5.5.3.4;
The UE capable of Rx-Tx time difference measurement when configured with measObjectRxTxDiff shall:
1>	perform the corresponding Rx-Tx time difference measurements associated with downlink reference signals indicated in the concerned measObjectRxTxDiff.
The UE capable of CBR measurement when configured to transmit NR sidelink communication/discovery/positioning shall:
1>	If the frequency used for NR sidelink communication/discovery/positioning is included in sl-FreqInfoToAddModList/sl-FreqInfoToAddModListExt in sl-ConfigDedicatedNR within RRCReconfiguration message or included in sl-ConfigCommonNR within SIB12 or included in sl-PosConfigCommonNR within SIB23:
2>	if the UE is in RRC_IDLE or in RRC_INACTIVE:
3>	if configured with NR sidelink communication and the cell chosen for NR sidelink communication provides SIB12 which includes sl-TxPoolSelectedNormal or sl-TxPoolExceptional for the concerned frequency; or
3>	if configured with NR sidelink discovery and the cell chosen for NR sidelink discovery provides SIB12 which includes sl-TxPoolSelectedNormal or sl-TxPoolExceptional but does not include sl-DiscTxPoolSelected for the concerned frequency:
4>	perform CBR measurement on pool(s) in sl-TxPoolSelectedNormal or sl-TxPoolExceptional for the concerned frequency in SIB12;
3>	if configured with NR sidelink discovery and the cell chosen for NR sidelink discovery provides SIB12 which includes sl-DiscTxPoolSelected for the concerned frequency:
4>	perform CBR measurement on pools in sl-DiscTxPoolSelected and sl-TxPoolExceptional for the concerned frequency in SIB12;
3>	if configured with NR sidelink positioning and the cell chosen for NR sidelink positioning provides SIB23 which includes sl-PRS-TxPoolSelectedNormal or sl-PRS-TxPoolExceptional for the concerned frequency, or provides SIB12 which includes sl-TxPoolSelectedNormal, sl-TxPoolExceptional:
4>	perform CBR measurement on pool(s) in sl-PRS-TxPoolSelectedNormal, sl-PRS-TxPoolExceptional, sl-TxPoolSelectedNormal or sl-TxPoolExceptional for the concerned frequency;
2>	if the UE is in RRC_CONNECTED:
3>	if tx-PoolMeasToAddModList is included in VarMeasConfig:
4>	perform CBR measurements on each transmission resource pool indicated in the tx-PoolMeasToAddModList;
3>	if sl-DiscTxPoolSelected, sl-TxPoolSelectedNormal, sl-TxPoolScheduling, sl-TxPoolExceptional, sl-PRS-TxPoolSelectedNormal, sl-PRS-TxPoolScheduling or sl-PRS-TxPoolExceptional is included in sl-ConfigDedicatedNR for the concerned frequency within RRCReconfiguration:
4>	perform CBR measurement on pool(s) in sl-DiscTxPoolSelected, sl-TxPoolSelectedNormal, sl-TxPoolScheduling, sl-TxPoolExceptional, sl-PRS-TxPoolSelectedNormal, sl-PRS-TxPoolScheduling and sl-PRS-TxPoolExceptional if included in sl-ConfigDedicatedNR for the concerned frequency within RRCReconfiguration;
3>	else:
4>	if configured with NR sidelink communication and the cell chosen for NR sidelink communication provides SIB12 which includes sl-TxPoolSelectedNormal or sl-TxPoolExceptional for the concerned frequency; or
4>	if configured with NR sidelink discovery and the cell chosen for NR sidelink discovery provides SIB12 which includes sl-TxPoolSelectedNormal or sl-TxPoolExceptional but does not provide sl-DiscTxPoolSelected for the concerned frequency:
5>	perform CBR measurement on pool(s) in sl-TxPoolSelectedNormal or sl-TxPoolExceptional for the concerned frequency in SIB12;
4>	if configured with NR sidelink discovery and the cell chosen for NR sidelink discovery provides SIB12 which includes sl-DiscTxPoolSelected for the concerned frequency:
5>	perform CBR measurement on pools in sl-DiscTxPoolSelected and sl-TxPoolExceptional for the concerned frequency in SIB12;
4>	if configured with NR sidelink positioning and the cell chosen for NR sidelink positioning provides SIB23 which includes sl-PRS-TxPoolSelectedNormal or sl-PRS-TxPoolExceptional, or provides SIB12 which includes sl-TxPoolSelectedNormal, sl-TxPoolExceptional for the concerned frequency:
5>	perform CBR measurement on pool(s) in sl-TxPoolSelectedNormal, sl-TxPoolExceptional, sl-PRS-TxPoolSelectedNormal or sl-PRS-TxPoolExceptional for the concerned frequency;
1>	else:
2>	if configured with NR sidelink communication and sl-TxPoolSelectedNormal is included in SidelinkPreconfigNR for the concerned frequency; or
2>	if configured with NR sidelink discovery and sl-TxPoolSelectedNormal is included in SidelinkPreconfigNR but sl-DiscTxPoolSelected is not included in SidelinkPreconfigNR for the concerned frequency:
3>	perform CBR measurement on pool(s) in sl-TxPoolSelectedNormal in SidelinkPreconfigNR for the concerned frequency.
2>	if configured with NR sidelink discovery and sl-DiscTxPoolSelected is included in SidelinkPreconfigNR for the concerned frequency:
3>	perform CBR measurement on pools in sl-DiscTxPoolSelected if included in SidelinkPreconfigNR.
2>	if configured with NR sidelink positioning and sl-TxPoolSelectedNormal or sl-PRS-TxPoolSelectedNormal is included in SL-PreconfigurationNR for the concerned frequency:
3>	perform CBR measurement on pool(s) in sl-TxPoolSelectedNormal or sl-PRS-TxPoolSelectedNormal in SidelinkPreconfigNR for the concerned frequency.
NOTE 2:	In case the configurations for NR sidelink communication and CBR measurement are acquired via the E-UTRA, configurations for NR sidelink communication in SIB12, sl-ConfigDedicatedNR within RRCReconfiguration used in this clause are provided by the configurations in SystemInformationBlockType28, sl-ConfigDedicatedForNR within RRCConnectionReconfiguration as specified in TS 36.331[10], respectively.
NOTE 3:	If a UE that is configured by upper layers to transmit V2X sidelink communication is configured by NR with transmission resource pool(s) and the measurement objects concerning V2X sidelink communication (i.e. by sl-ConfigDedicatedEUTRA-Info), it shall perform CBR measurement as specified in clause 5.5.3 of TS 36.331 [10], based on the transmission resource pool(s) and the measurement object(s) concerning V2X sidelink communication configured by NR.
NOTE 4:	For V2X sidelink communication, each of the CBR measurement results is associated with a resource pool, as indicated by the poolReportId (see TS 36.331 [10]), that refers to a pool as included in sl-ConfigDedicatedEUTRA-Info or SIB13.
5.5.3.2	Layer 3 filtering
The UE shall:
1>	for each cell measurement quantity, each beam measurement quantity, each sidelink measurement quantity as needed in clause 5.8.10, for each CLI measurement quantity that the UE performs measurements according to 5.5.3.1, for each L2 U2N Relay UE measurement quantity according to 5.5.3.4, for evaluating the selected or detected NR sidelink U2N Relay UEs according to 5.8.15.3, for evaluating the SyncRef UE according to 5.8.5 and 5.8.6, for evaluating the NR sidelink U2U Relay/Remote UE threshold conditions according to 5.8.16.2 and 5.8.17.2, for evaluating the conditions for selection and reselection of NR sidelink U2U Relay UE according to 5.8.17.3, and for evaluating the detected NR sidelink U2U Relay UEs according to 5.8.17.4:
2>	filter the measured result, before using for evaluation of reporting criteria, for measurement reporting, for U2N/U2U Relay (re)selection evaluation or for evaluating the SyncRef UE, by the following formula:
	Fn = (1 – a)*Fn-1 + a*Mn
	where
Mn is the latest received measurement result from the physical layer;
Fn is the updated filtered measurement result, that is used for evaluation of reporting criteria, for measurement reporting, for U2N/U2U Relay (re)selection evaluation or for evaluating the SyncRef UE;
Fn-1 is the old filtered measurement result, where F0 is set to M1 when the first measurement result from the physical layer is received; and for MeasObjectNR, a = 1/2(ki/4), where ki is the filterCoefficient for the corresponding measurement quantity of the i:th QuantityConfigNR in quantityConfigNR-List, and i is indicated by quantityConfigIndex in MeasObjectNR; for other measurements, a = 1/2(k/4), where k is the filterCoefficient for the corresponding measurement quantity received by the quantityConfig; for UTRA-FDD, a = 1/2(k/4), where k is the filterCoefficient for the corresponding measurement quantity received by quantityConfigUTRA-FDD in the QuantityConfig;
2>	adapt the filter such that the time characteristics of the filter are preserved at different input rates, observing that the filterCoefficient k assumes a sample rate equal to X ms; The value of X is equivalent to one intra-frequency L1 measurement period as defined in TS 38.133 [14] assuming non-DRX operation, and depends on frequency range.
NOTE 1:	If k is set to 0, no layer 3 filtering is applicable.
NOTE 2:	The filtering is performed in the same domain as used for evaluation of reporting criteria, for measurement reporting, for U2N/U2U Relay (re)selection evaluation or for evaluating the SyncRef UE, i.e., logarithmic filtering for logarithmic measurements.
NOTE 3:	The filter input rate is implementation dependent, to fulfil the performance requirements set in TS 38.133 [14]. For further details about the physical layer measurements, see TS 38.133 [14].
NOTE 4:	For CLI-RSSI measurement, it is up to UE implementation whether to reset filtering upon BWP switch.
NOTE 5:	For SSB measurements when multiple altitude range-based ssb-ToMeasure are configured, it is up to UE implementation whether to reset filtering upon entering a different altitude range.
NOTE 6:	Upon satellite switch with resynchronization, it is up to UE implementation to reset filtering for the serving cell.
5.5.3.3	Derivation of cell measurement results
The network may configure the UE in RRC_CONNECTED to derive RSRP, RSRQ and SINR measurement results per cell associated to NR measurement objects based on parameters configured in the measObject (e.g. maximum number of beams to be averaged and beam consolidation thresholds) and in the reportConfig (rsType to be measured, SS/PBCH block or CSI-RS).
The network may configure the UE in RRC_IDLE or in RRC_INACTIVE to derive RSRP and RSRQ measurement results per cell associated to NR carriers based on parameters configured in measIdleCarrierListNR within VarMeasIdleConfig for measurements performed according to 5.7.8.2a.
The UE shall:
1>	for each cell measurement quantity to be derived based on SS/PBCH block:
2>	if nrofSS-BlocksToAverage is not configured in the associated measObject in RRC_CONNECTED or in the associated entry in measIdleCarrierListNR within VarMeasIdleConfig in RRC_IDLE/RRC_INACTIVE; or
2>	if absThreshSS-BlocksConsolidation is not configured in the associated measObject in RRC_CONNECTED or in the associated entry in measIdleCarrierListNR within VarMeasIdleConfig in RRC_IDLE/RRC_INACTIVE; or
2>	if the highest beam measurement quantity value is below or equal to absThreshSS-BlocksConsolidation:
3>	derive each cell measurement quantity based on SS/PBCH block as the highest beam measurement quantity value, where each beam measurement quantity is described in TS 38.215 [9];
2>	else:
3>	derive each cell measurement quantity based on SS/PBCH block as the linear power scale average of the highest beam measurement quantity values above absThreshSS-BlocksConsolidation where the total number of averaged beams shall not exceed nrofSS-BlocksToAverage, and where each beam measurement quantity is described in TS 38.215 [9];
2>	if in RRC_CONNECTED, apply layer 3 cell filtering as described in 5.5.3.2;
1>	for each cell measurement quantity to be derived based on CSI-RS:
2>	consider a CSI-RS resource to be applicable for deriving cell measurements when the concerned CSI-RS resource is included in the csi-rs-CellMobility including the physCellId of the cell in theCSI-RS-ResourceConfigMobility in the associated measObject;
2>	if nrofCSI-RS-ResourcesToAverage in the associated measObject is not configured; or
2>	if absThreshCSI-RS-Consolidation in the associated measObject is not configured; or
2>	if the highest beam measurement quantity value is below or equal to absThreshCSI-RS-Consolidation:
3>	derive each cell measurement quantity based on applicable CSI-RS resources for the cell as the highest beam measurement quantity value, where each beam measurement quantity is described in TS 38.215 [9];
2>	else:
3>	derive each cell measurement quantity based on CSI-RS as the linear power scale average of the highest beam measurement quantity values above absThreshCSI-RS-Consolidation where the total number of averaged beams shall not exceed nrofCSI-RS-ResourcesToAverage;
2>	apply layer 3 cell filtering as described in 5.5.3.2.
5.5.3.3a	Derivation of layer 3 beam filtered measurement
The UE shall:
1>	for each layer 3 beam filtered measurement quantity to be derived based on SS/PBCH block;
2>	derive each configured beam measurement quantity based on SS/PBCH block as described in TS 38.215[9], and apply layer 3 beam filtering as described in 5.5.3.2;
1>	for each layer 3 beam filtered measurement quantity to be derived based on CSI-RS;
2>	derive each configured beam measurement quantity based on CSI-RS as described in TS 38.215 [9], and apply layer 3 beam filtering as described in 5.5.3.2.
5.5.3.4	Derivation of L2 U2N Relay UE measurement results
A UE may be configured by network to derive NR sidelink measurement results of serving L2 U2N Relay UE or candidate L2 U2N Relay UEs associated to the measurement objects configured in the measObjectRelay.
The UE shall:
1>	for each L2 U2N Relay UE measurement quantity to be derived:
2>	derive the corresponding measurement quantity based on PSSCH/PSCCH DMRS as described in TS 38.215 [9];
2>	apply layer 3 filtering as described in 5.5.3.2;
5.5.4	Measurement report triggering
5.5.4.1	General
If AS security has been activated successfully, the UE shall:
1>	for each measId included in the measIdList within VarMeasConfig:
2>	if the corresponding reportConfig includes a reportType set to eventTriggered or periodical:
3>	if the corresponding measObject concerns NR:
4>	if the corresponding reportConfig includes measRSSI-ReportConfig:
5>	consider the resource indicated by the rmtc-Config on the associated frequency to be applicable;
4>	if the eventA1 or eventA2 is configured in the corresponding reportConfig:
5>	consider only the serving cell to be applicable;
4>	if the eventA3 or eventA5 or eventA3H1 or eventA3H2 or eventA5H1 or eventA5H2 is configured in the corresponding reportConfig:
5>	if a serving cell is associated with a measObjectNR and neighbours are associated with another measObjectNR, consider any serving cell associated with the other measObjectNR to be a neighbouring cell as well;
4>	if the eventX2 is configured in the corresponding reportConfig:
5>	consider only the serving L2 U2N Relay UE to be applicable;
4>	if corresponding reportConfig includes reportType set to periodical; or
4>	for measurement events other than eventA1, eventA2, eventD1, eventD2, eventX2, eventH1 or eventH2:
5>	if useAllowedCellList is set to true:
6>	consider any neighbouring cell detected based on parameters in the associated measObjectNR to be applicable when the concerned cell is included in the allowedCellsToAddModList defined within the VarMeasConfig for this measId;
5>	else:
6>	consider any neighbouring cell detected based on parameters in the associated measObjectNR to be applicable when the concerned cell is not included in the excludedCellsToAddModList defined within the VarMeasConfig for this measId;
3>	else if the corresponding measObject concerns E-UTRA:
4>	if eventB1 or eventB2 is configured in the corresponding reportConfig:
5>	consider a serving cell, if any, on the associated E-UTRA frequency as neighbour cell;
4>	consider any neighbouring cell detected on the associated frequency to be applicable when the concerned cell is not included in the excludedCellsToAddModListEUTRAN defined within the VarMeasConfig for this measId;
3>	else if the corresponding measObject concerns UTRA-FDD:
4>	if eventB1-UTRA-FDD or eventB2-UTRA-FDD is configured in the corresponding reportConfig; or
4>	if corresponding reportConfig includes reportType set to periodical:
5>	consider a neighbouring cell on the associated frequency to be applicable when the concerned cell is included in the cellsToAddModList defined within the VarMeasConfig for this measId;
3>	else if the corresponding measObject concerns L2 U2N Relay UE:
4>	if eventY1-Relay or eventY2-Relay or eventZ1-Relay is configured in the corresponding reportConfig; or
4>	if corresponding reportConfig includes reportType set to periodical:
5>	consider any L2 U2N Relay UE fulfilling upper layer criteria detected on the associated frequency to be applicable for this measId;
2>	else if the corresponding reportConfig includes a reportType set to reportCGI:
3>	consider the cell detected on the associated measObject which has a physical cell identity matching the value of the cellForWhichToReportCGI included in the corresponding reportConfig within the VarMeasConfig to be applicable;
2>	else if the corresponding reportConfig includes a reportType set to reportSFTD:
3>	if the corresponding measObject concerns NR:
4>	if the reportSFTD-Meas is set to true:
5>	consider the NR PSCell to be applicable;
4>	else if the reportSFTD-NeighMeas is included:
5>	if cellsForWhichToReportSFTD is configured in the corresponding reportConfig:
6>	consider any NR neighbouring cell detected on the associated measObjectNR which has a physical cell identity that is included in the cellsForWhichToReportSFTD to be applicable;
5>	else:
6>	consider up to 3 strongest NR neighbouring cells detected based on parameters in the associated measObjectNR to be applicable when the concerned cells are not included in the excludedCellsToAddModList defined within the VarMeasConfig for this measId;
3>	else if the corresponding measObject concerns E-UTRA:
4>	if the reportSFTD-Meas is set to true:
5>	consider the E-UTRA PSCell to be applicable;
2>	else if the corresponding reportConfig includes a reportType set to cli-Periodical or cli-EventTriggered:
3>	consider all CLI measurement resources included in the corresponding measObject to be applicable;
2>	else if the corresponding reportConfig includes a reportType set to rxTxPeriodical:
3>	consider all Rx-Tx time difference measurement resources included in the corresponding measObject to be applicable;
2>	if the corresponding reportConfig concerns the reporting for NR sidelink communication/discovery (i.e. reportConfigNR-SL):
3>	consider the transmission resource pools indicated by the tx-PoolMeasToAddModList defined within the VarMeasConfig for this measId to be applicable;
2>	if the reportType is set to eventTriggered, and if the corresponding reportConfig does not include numberOfTriggeringCells, and if the entry condition applicable for this event, i.e. the event corresponding with the eventId of the corresponding reportConfig within VarMeasConfig, is fulfilled for one or more applicable cells for all measurements after layer 3 filtering taken during timeToTrigger defined for this event within the VarMeasConfig, while the VarMeasReportList does not include a measurement reporting entry for this measId (a first cell triggers the event):
3>	include a measurement reporting entry within the VarMeasReportList for this measId;
3>	set the numberOfReportsSent defined within the VarMeasReportList for this measId to 0;
3>	include the concerned cell(s) in the cellsTriggeredList defined within the VarMeasReportList for this measId;
3>	if useT312 is set to true in reportConfig for this event:
4>	if T310 for the corresponding SpCell is running; and
4>	if T312 is not running for corresponding SpCell:
5>	start timer T312 for the corresponding SpCell with the value of T312 configured in the corresponding measObjectNR;
3>	initiate the measurement reporting procedure, as specified in 5.5.5;
2>	else if the reportType is set to eventTriggered, and if the corresponding reportConfig does not include numberOfTriggeringCells, and if the entry condition applicable for this event, i.e. the event corresponding with the eventId of the corresponding reportConfig within VarMeasConfig, is fulfilled for one or more applicable cells not included in the cellsTriggeredList for all measurements after layer 3 filtering taken during timeToTrigger defined for this event within the VarMeasConfig (a subsequent cell triggers the event):
3>	set the numberOfReportsSent defined within the VarMeasReportList for this measId to 0;
3>	include the concerned cell(s) in the cellsTriggeredList defined within the VarMeasReportList for this measId;
3>	if useT312 is set to true in reportConfig for this event:
4>	if T310 for the corresponding SpCell is running; and
4>	if T312 is not running for corresponding SpCell:
5>	start timer T312 for the corresponding SpCell with the value of T312 configured in the corresponding measObjectNR;
3>	initiate the measurement reporting procedure, as specified in 5.5.5;
2>	if the reportType is set to eventTriggered, and if the corresponding reportConfig includes numberOfTriggeringCells, and if the entry condition applicable for this event, i.e. the event corresponding with the eventId of the corresponding reportConfig within VarMeasConfig, is fulfilled for one or more applicable cells for all measurements after layer 3 filtering taken during timeToTrigger defined for this event within the VarMeasConfig:
3>	if the VarMeasReportList does not include a measurement reporting entry for this measId (a first cell triggers the event):
4>	include a measurement reporting entry within the VarMeasReportList for this measId;
3>	if the number of cell(s) in the cellsTriggeredList is larger than or equal to numberOfTriggeringCells:
4>	include the concerned cell(s) in the cellsTriggeredList defined within the VarMeasReportList for this measId;
3>	else:
4>	include the concerned cell(s) in the cellsTriggeredList defined within the VarMeasReportList for this measId;
4>	if the number of cell(s) in the cellsTriggeredList is larger than or equal to numberOfTriggeringCells:
5>	set the numberOfReportsSent defined within the VarMeasReportList for this measId to 0;
5>	initiate the measurement reporting procedure, as specified in 5.5.5;
2>	if the reportType is set to eventTriggered and if the leaving condition applicable for this event is fulfilled for one or more of the cells included in the cellsTriggeredList defined within the VarMeasReportList for this measId for all measurements after layer 3 filtering taken during timeToTrigger defined within the VarMeasConfig for this event:
3>	if enteringLeavingReport is configured for the corresponding reporting configuration:
4>	store the concerned cell(s) in the cellsMetLeavingCond defined within the VarMeasReportList for this measId;
3>	remove the concerned cell(s) in the cellsTriggeredList defined within the VarMeasReportList for this measId;
3>	if reportOnLeave is set to true for the corresponding reporting configuration:
4>	if the corresponding reportConfig does not include numberOfTriggeringCells; or
4>	if the corresponding reportConfig includes numberOfTriggeringCells and a measurement report was previously sent to the network for at least one of the concerned cell(s):
5>	initiate the measurement reporting procedure, as specified in 5.5.5;
3>	remove all the concerned cell(s) from cellsMetLeavingCond defined within the VarMeasReportList for this measId, if any;
3>	if the cellsTriggeredList defined within the VarMeasReportList for this measId is empty:
4>	remove the measurement reporting entry within the VarMeasReportList for this measId;
4>	stop the periodical reporting timer for this measId, if running;
2>	if the reportType is set to eventTriggered and if the entry condition applicable for this event, i.e. the event corresponding with the eventId of the corresponding reportConfig within VarMeasConfig, is fulfilled for one or more applicable L2 U2N Relay UEs for all measurements after layer 3 filtering taken during timeToTrigger defined for this event within the VarMeasConfig, while the VarMeasReportList does not include a measurement reporting entry for this measId (a first L2 U2N Relay UE triggers the event):
3>	include a measurement reporting entry within the VarMeasReportList for this measId;
3>	set the numberOfReportsSent defined within the VarMeasReportList for this measId to 0;
3>	include the concerned L2 U2N Relay UE(s) in the relaysTriggeredList defined within the VarMeasReportList for this measId;
3>	initiate the measurement reporting procedure, as specified in 5.5.5;
2>	else if the reportType is set to eventTriggered and if the entry condition applicable for this event, i.e. the event corresponding with the eventId of the corresponding reportConfig within VarMeasConfig, is fulfilled for one or more applicable L2 U2N Relay UEs not included in the relaysTriggeredList for all measurements after layer 3 filtering taken during timeToTrigger defined for this event within the VarMeasConfig (a subsequent L2 U2N Relay UE triggers the event):
3>	set the numberOfReportsSent defined within the VarMeasReportList for this measId to 0;
3>	include the concerned L2 U2N Relay UE(s) in the relaysTriggeredList defined within the VarMeasReportList for this measId;
3>	initiate the measurement reporting procedure, as specified in 5.5.5;
2>	else if the reportType is set to eventTriggered and if the leaving condition applicable for this event is fulfilled for one or more of the L2 U2N Relay UEs included in the relaysTriggeredList defined within the VarMeasReportList for this measId for all measurements after layer 3 filtering taken during timeToTrigger defined within the VarMeasConfig for this event:
3>	remove the concerned L2 U2N Relay UE(s) in the relaysTriggeredList defined within the VarMeasReportList for this measId;
3>	if reportOnLeave is set to true for the corresponding reporting configuration:
4>	initiate the measurement reporting procedure, as specified in 5.5.5;
3>	if the relaysTriggeredList defined within the VarMeasReportList for this measId is empty:
4>	remove the measurement reporting entry within the VarMeasReportList for this measId;
4>	stop the periodical reporting timer for this measId, if running;
2>	else if the reportType is set to eventTriggered and if the entry condition applicable for this event, i.e. the event corresponding with the eventId of the corresponding reportConfig within VarMeasConfig, is fulfilled for one or more applicable transmission resource pools for all measurements taken during timeToTrigger defined for this event within the VarMeasConfig, while the VarMeasReportList does not include an measurement reporting entry for this measId (a first transmission resource pool triggers the event):
3>	include a measurement reporting entry within the VarMeasReportList for this measId;
3>	set the numberOfReportsSent defined within the VarMeasReportList for this measId to 0;
3>	include the concerned transmission resource pool(s) in the poolsTriggeredList defined within the VarMeasReportList for this measId;
3>	initiate the measurement reporting procedure, as specified in 5.5.5;
2>	else if the reportType is set to eventTriggered and if the entry condition applicable for this event, i.e. the event corresponding with the eventId of the corresponding reportConfig within VarMeasConfig, is fulfilled for one or more applicable transmission resource pools not included in the poolsTriggeredList for all measurements taken during timeToTrigger defined for this event within the VarMeasConfig (a subsequent transmission resource pool triggers the event):
3>	set the numberOfReportsSent defined within the VarMeasReportList for this measId to 0;
3>	include the concerned transmission resource pool(s) in the poolsTriggeredList defined within the VarMeasReportList for this measId;
3>	initiate the measurement reporting procedure, as specified in 5.5.5;
2>	if the reportType is set to eventTriggered and if the leaving condition applicable for this event is fulfilled for one or more applicable transmission resource pools included in the poolsTriggeredList defined within the VarMeasReportList for this measId for all measurements taken during timeToTrigger defined within the VarMeasConfig for this event:
3>	remove the concerned transmission resource pool(s) in the poolsTriggeredList defined within the VarMeasReportList for this measId;
3>	if the poolsTriggeredList defined within the VarMeasReportList for this measId is empty:
4>	remove the measurement reporting entry within the VarMeasReportList for this measId;
4>	stop the periodical reporting timer for this measId, if running
2>	else if the reportType is set to eventTriggered and if the eventId is set to eventD1 or eventD2 or eventH1 or eventH2 and if the entering condition applicable for this event, i.e. the event corresponding with the eventId of the corresponding reportConfig within VarMeasConfig, is fulfilled during timeToTrigger defined for this event within the VarMeasConfig, while the VarMeasReportList does not include a measurement reporting entry for this measId:
3>	include a measurement reporting entry within the VarMeasReportList for this measId;
3>	set the numberOfReportsSent defined within the VarMeasReportList for this measId to 0;
3>	initiate the measurement reporting procedure, as specified in 5.5.5;
2>	else if the reportType is set to eventTriggered and if the eventId is set to eventD1 or eventD2 or eventH1 or eventH2 and if the leaving condition applicable for this event is fulfilled for the associated VarMeasReport within the VarMeasReportList for this measId during timeToTrigger defined within the VarMeasConfig for this event:
3>	if reportOnLeave is set to true for the corresponding reporting configuration:
4>	initiate the measurement reporting procedure, as specified in 5.5.5;
3>	remove the measurement reporting entry within the VarMeasReportList for this measId;
3>	stop the periodical reporting timer for this measId, if running;
NOTE 1:	Void.
2>	if reportType is set to periodical and if a (first) measurement result is available:
3>	include a measurement reporting entry within the VarMeasReportList for this measId;
3>	set the numberOfReportsSent defined within the VarMeasReportList for this measId to 0;
3>	if the corresponding reportConfig includes measRSSI-ReportConfig:
4>	initiate the measurement reporting procedure as specified in 5.5.5 immediately when RSSI sample values are reported by the physical layer after the first L1 measurement duration;
3>	else if the corresponding reportConfig includes the ul-DelayValueConfig:
4>	initiate the measurement reporting procedure, as specified in 5.5.5, immediately after a first measurement result is provided from lower layers of the associated DRB identity;
3>	else if the corresponding reportConfig includes the ul-ExcessDelayConfig:
4>	initiate the measurement reporting procedure, as specified in 5.5.5, immediately after a first measurement result is provided from lower layers of the associated DRB identity(ies) according to the configured threshold per DRB identity(ies);
3>	else if the reportAmount exceeds 1:
4>	initiate the measurement reporting procedure, as specified in 5.5.5, immediately after the quantity to be reported becomes available for the NR SpCell or for the serving L2 U2N Relay UE (if the UE is a L2 U2N Remote UE);
3>	else (i.e. the reportAmount is equal to 1):
4>	initiate the measurement reporting procedure, as specified in 5.5.5, immediately after the quantity to be reported becomes available for the NR SpCell and for the strongest cell among the applicable cells, or for the NR SpCell and for the strongest L2 U2N Relay UEs among the applicable L2 U2N Relay UEs; or initiate the measurement reporting procedure, as specified in 5.5.5, immediately after the quantity to be reported becomes available for the serving L2 U2N Relay UE and for the strongest cell among the applicable cells, or for the serving L2 U2N Relay UE and for the strongest L2 U2N Relay UEs among the applicable L2 U2N Relay UEs (if the UE is a L2 U2N Remote UE);
2>	if, in case the corresponding reportConfig concerns the reporting for NR sidelink communication/discovery, reportType is set to periodical and if a (first) measurement result is available:
3>	include a measurement reporting entry within the VarMeasReportList for this measId;
3>	set the numberOfReportsSent defined within the VarMeasReportList for this measId to 0;
3>	initiate the measurement reporting procedure, as specified in 5.5.5, immediately after the quantity to be reported becomes available for the NR SpCell and CBR measurement results become available;
2>	if the reportType is set to cli-EventTriggered and if the entry condition applicable for this event, i.e. the event corresponding with the eventId of the corresponding reportConfig within VarMeasConfig, is fulfilled for one or more applicable CLI measurement resources for all measurements after layer 3 filtering taken during timeToTrigger defined for this event within the VarMeasConfig, while the VarMeasReportList does not include a measurement reporting entry for this measId (a first CLI measurement resource triggers the event):
3>	include a measurement reporting entry within the VarMeasReportList for this measId;
3>	set the numberOfReportsSent defined within the VarMeasReportList for this measId to 0;
3>	include the concerned CLI measurement resource(s) in the cli-TriggeredList defined within the VarMeasReportList for this measId;
3>	initiate the measurement reporting procedure, as specified in 5.5.5;
2>	else if the reportType is set to cli-EventTriggered and if the entry condition applicable for this event, i.e. the event corresponding with the eventId of the corresponding reportConfig within VarMeasConfig, is fulfilled for one or more CLI measurement resources not included in the cli-TriggeredList for all measurements after layer 3 filtering taken during timeToTrigger defined for this event within the VarMeasConfig (a subsequent CLI measurement resource triggers the event):
3>	set the numberOfReportsSent defined within the VarMeasReportList for this measId to 0;
3>	include the concerned CLI measurement resource(s) in the cli-TriggeredList defined within the VarMeasReportList for this measId;
3>	initiate the measurement reporting procedure, as specified in 5.5.5;
2>	if the reportType is set to cli-EventTriggered and if the leaving condition applicable for this event is fulfilled for one or more of the CLI measurement resources included in the cli-TriggeredList defined within the VarMeasReportList for this measId for all measurements after layer 3 filtering taken during timeToTrigger defined within the VarMeasConfig for this event:
3>	remove the concerned CLI measurement resource(s) in the cli-TriggeredList defined within the VarMeasReportList for this measId;
3>	if reportOnLeave is set to true for the corresponding reporting configuration:
4>	initiate the measurement reporting procedure, as specified in 5.5.5;
3>	if the cli-TriggeredList defined within the VarMeasReportList for this measId is empty:
4>	remove the measurement reporting entry within the VarMeasReportList for this measId;
4>	stop the periodical reporting timer for this measId, if running;
2>	if reportType is set to cli-Periodical and if a (first) measurement result is available:
3>	include a measurement reporting entry within the VarMeasReportList for this measId;
3>	set the numberOfReportsSent defined within the VarMeasReportList for this measId to 0;
3>	initiate the measurement reporting procedure, as specified in 5.5.5, immediately after the quantity to be reported becomes available for at least one CLI measurement resource;
2>	if reportType is set to rxTxPeriodical and if a (first) measurement result is available:
3>	include a measurement reporting entry within the VarMeasReportList for this measId;
3>	set the numberOfReportsSent defined within the VarMeasReportList for this measId to 0;
3>	initiate the measurement reporting procedure, as specified in 5.5.5;
2>	upon expiry of the periodical reporting timer for this measId:
3>	if reportType is set to eventTriggered and reportOnBestCellChange is configured for this measId
4>	if reportOnBestCellChange is set to n1, and the first measured neighbouring cell among cells within cellsTriggeredList according to the sorting quantity is the same as the first cell in reportedBestNeighbourCell defined within the VarMeasReportList for this measId, or
4>	if reportOnBestCellChange is set to n2 and there is only one cell included in the cellsTriggeredList for this measId, and the best measured neighbouring cell according to the sorting quantity in the cellsTriggeredList is the same as the first cell in reportedBestNeighbourCell defined within the VarMeasReportList for this measId, or
4>	if reportOnBestCellChange is set to n2 and there is more than one cell included in the cellsTriggeredList for this measId, and the best measured neighbouring cell among cells within cellsTriggeredList according to the sorting quantity is the same as the first cell in reportedBestNeighbourCell defined within the VarMeasReportList for this measId, and the second best measured neighbouring cell among cells within cellsTriggeredList according to the sorting quantity is the same as the second cell in reportedBestNeighbourCell defined within the VarMeasReportList for this measId:
5>	increment the numberOfReportsSent as defined within the VarMeasReportList for this measId by 1;
5>	if the numberOfReportsSent as defined within the VarMeasReportList for this measId is less than the reportAmount as defined within the corresponding reportConfig for this measId:
6>	restart the periodical reporting timer with the value of reportInterval as defined within the corresponding reportConfig for this measId;
4>	else:
5>	initiate the measurement reporting procedure, as specified in 5.5.5;3>	else:
4>	initiate the measurement reporting procedure, as specified in 5.5.5.
2>	if the corresponding reportConfig includes a reportType is set to reportSFTD:
3>	if the corresponding measObject concerns NR:
4>	if the drx-SFTD-NeighMeas is included:
5>	if the quantity to be reported becomes available for each requested pair of PCell and NR cell:
6>	stop timer T322;
6>	initiate the measurement reporting procedure, as specified in 5.5.5;
4>	else
5>	initiate the measurement reporting procedure, as specified in 5.5.5, immediately after the quantity to be reported becomes available for each requested pair of PCell and NR cell or the maximal measurement reporting delay as specified in TS 38.133 [14];
3>	else if the corresponding measObject concerns E-UTRA:
4>	initiate the measurement reporting procedure, as specified in 5.5.5, immediately after the quantity to be reported becomes available for the pair of PCell and E-UTRA PSCell or the maximal measurement reporting delay as specified in TS 38.133 [14];
2>	if reportType is set to reportCGI:
3>	if the UE acquired the SIB1 or SystemInformationBlockType1 for the requested cell; or
3>	if the UE detects that the requested NR cell is not transmitting SIB1 (see TS 38.213 [13], clause 13):
4>	stop timer T321;
4>	include a measurement reporting entry within the VarMeasReportList for this measId;
4>	set the numberOfReportsSent defined within the VarMeasReportList for this measId to 0;
4>	initiate the measurement reporting procedure, as specified in 5.5.5;
2>	upon the expiry of T321 for this measId:
3>	include a measurement reporting entry within the VarMeasReportList for this measId;
3>	set the numberOfReportsSent defined within the VarMeasReportList for this measId to 0;
3>	initiate the measurement reporting procedure, as specified in 5.5.5.
2>	upon the expiry of T322 for this measId:
3>	initiate the measurement reporting procedure, as specified in 5.5.5.
If AS security has been activated successfully and if SCell activation(s) indication is received from lower layer, the UE shall:
1>	if reportType is set to reportOnScellActivation for any measId included in the measIdList within VarMeasConfig:
2>	if the activated SCell(s) fulfills the measurement requirement as specified in TS 38.133 [14]:
3>	include a measurement reporting entry within the VarMeasReportList for this measId:
3>	set the numberOfReportsSent defined within the VarMeasReportList for this measId to 0;
4>	initiate the measurement reporting procedure, as specified in 5.5.5.
5.5.4.2	Event A1 (Serving becomes better than threshold)
The UE shall:
1>	consider the entering condition for this event to be satisfied when condition A1-1, as specified below, is fulfilled;
1>	consider the leaving condition for this event to be satisfied when condition A1-2, as specified below, is fulfilled;
1>	for this measurement, consider the NR serving cell corresponding to the associated measObjectNR associated with this event.
Inequality A1-1 (Entering condition)
Ms – Hys > Thresh
Inequality A1-2 (Leaving condition)
Ms + Hys < Thresh
The variables in the formula are defined as follows:
Ms is the measurement result of the serving cell, not taking into account any offsets.
Hys is the hysteresis parameter for this event (i.e. hysteresis as defined within reportConfigNR for this event).
Thresh is the threshold parameter for this event (i.e. a1-Threshold as defined within reportConfigNR for this event).
Ms is expressed in dBm in case of RSRP, or in dB in case of RSRQ and RS-SINR.
Hys is expressed in dB.
Thresh is expressed in the same unit as Ms.
5.5.4.3	Event A2 (Serving becomes worse than threshold)
The UE shall:
1>	consider the entering condition for this event to be satisfied when condition A2-1, as specified below, is fulfilled;
1>	consider the leaving condition for this event to be satisfied when condition A2-2, as specified below, is fulfilled;
1>	for this measurement, consider the serving cell indicated by the measObjectNR associated to this event.
NOTE:	If the SCell indicated by the measObjectNR associated to this event is not detectable, then the UE should consider for the value of Ms the lowest value of the value range of the measurement quantity as the SCell measurement.
Inequality A2-1 (Entering condition)
Ms + Hys < Thresh
Inequality A2-2 (Leaving condition)
Ms – Hys > Thresh
The variables in the formula are defined as follows:
Ms is the measurement result of the serving cell, not taking into account any offsets.
Hys is the hysteresis parameter for this event (i.e. hysteresis as defined within reportConfigNR for this event).
Thresh is the threshold parameter for this event (i.e. a2-Threshold as defined within reportConfigNR for this event).
Ms is expressed in dBm in case of RSRP, or in dB in case of RSRQ and RS-SINR.
Hys is expressed in dB.
Thresh is expressed in the same unit as Ms.
5.5.4.4	Event A3 (Neighbour becomes offset better than SpCell)
The UE shall:
1>	consider the entering condition for this event to be satisfied when condition A3-1, as specified below, is fulfilled;
1>	consider the leaving condition for this event to be satisfied when condition A3-2, as specified below, is fulfilled;
1>	use the SpCell for Mp, Ofp and Ocp.
NOTE 1:	The cell(s) that triggers the event has reference signals indicated in the measObjectNR associated to this event which may be different from the NR SpCell measObjectNR.
Inequality A3-1 (Entering condition)
Mn + Ofn + Ocn – Hys > Mp + Ofp + Ocp + Off
Inequality A3-2 (Leaving condition)
Mn + Ofn + Ocn + Hys < Mp + Ofp + Ocp + Off
The variables in the formula are defined as follows:
Mn is the measurement result of the neighbouring cell, not taking into account any offsets.
Ofn is the measurement object specific offset of the reference signal of the neighbour cell (i.e. offsetMO as defined within measObjectNR corresponding to the frequency of the neighbour cell).
Ocn is the cell specific offset of the neighbour cell (i.e. cellIndividualOffset as defined within measObjectNR corresponding to the frequency of the neighbour cell, or cellIndividualOffset as defined within reportConfigNR), and set to zero if not configured for the neighbour cell.
Mp is the measurement result of the SpCell, not taking into account any offsets.
Ofp is the measurement object specific offset of the SpCell (i.e. offsetMO as defined within measObjectNR corresponding to the SpCell).
Ocp is the cell specific offset of the SpCell (i.e. cellIndividualOffset as defined within measObjectNR corresponding to the SpCell), and is set to zero if not configured for the SpCell.
Hys is the hysteresis parameter for this event (i.e. hysteresis as defined within reportConfigNR for this event).
Off is the offset parameter for this event (i.e. a3-Offset as defined within reportConfigNR for this event).
Mn, Mp are expressed in dBm in case of RSRP, or in dB in case of RSRQ and RS-SINR.
Ofn, Ocn, Ofp, Ocp, Hys, Off are expressed in dB.
NOTE 2:	The definition of Event A3 also applies to CondEvent A3.
5.5.4.5	Event A4 (Neighbour becomes better than threshold)
The UE shall:
1>	consider the entering condition for this event to be satisfied when condition A4-1, as specified below, is fulfilled;
1>	consider the leaving condition for this event to be satisfied when condition A4-2, as specified below, is fulfilled.
Inequality A4-1 (Entering condition)
Mn + Ofn + Ocn – Hys > Thresh
Inequality A4-2 (Leaving condition)
Mn + Ofn + Ocn + Hys < Thresh
The variables in the formula are defined as follows:
Mn is the measurement result of the neighbouring cell or the measurement result of serving PSCell (i.e., in case it is configured as candidate PSCell for CondEvent A4 evaluation) for CHO with candidate SCG(s) case, not taking into account any offsets.
Ofn is the measurement object specific offset of the neighbour cell (i.e. offsetMO as defined within measObjectNR corresponding to the frequency of the neighbour cell).
Ocn is the cell specific offset of the neighbour cell (i.e. cellIndividualOffset as defined within measObjectNR corresponding to the frequency of the neighbour cell, or cellIndividualOffset as defined within reportConfigNR), and set to zero if not configured for the neighbour cell.
Hys is the hysteresis parameter for this event (i.e. hysteresis as defined within reportConfigNR for this event).
Thresh is the threshold parameter for this event (i.e. a4-Threshold as defined within reportConfigNR for this event).
Mn is expressed in dBm in case of RSRP, or in dB in case of RSRQ and RS-SINR.
Ofn, Ocn, Hys are expressed in dB.
Thresh is expressed in the same unit as Mn.
NOTE:	The definition of Event A4 also applies to CondEvent A4.
5.5.4.6	Event A5 (SpCell becomes worse than threshold1 and neighbour becomes better than threshold2)
The UE shall:
1>	consider the entering condition for this event to be satisfied when both condition A5-1 and condition A5-2, as specified below, are fulfilled;
1>	consider the leaving condition for this event to be satisfied when condition A5-3 or condition A5-4, i.e. at least one of the two, as specified below, is fulfilled;
1>	use the SpCell for Mp.
NOTE 1:	The parameters of the reference signal(s) of the cell(s) that triggers the event are indicated in the measObjectNR associated to the event which may be different from the measObjectNR of the NR SpCell.
Inequality A5-1 (Entering condition 1)
Mp + Hys < Thresh1
Inequality A5-2 (Entering condition 2)
Mn + Ofn + Ocn – Hys > Thresh2
Inequality A5-3 (Leaving condition 1)
Mp – Hys > Thresh1
Inequality A5-4 (Leaving condition 2)
Mn + Ofn + Ocn + Hys < Thresh2
The variables in the formula are defined as follows:
Mp is the measurement result of the NR SpCell, not taking into account any offsets.
Mn is the measurement result of the neighbouring cell, not taking into account any offsets.
Ofn is the measurement object specific offset of the neighbour cell (i.e. offsetMO as defined within measObjectNR corresponding to the frequency of the neighbour cell).
Ocn is the cell specific offset of the neighbour cell (i.e. cellIndividualOffset as defined within measObjectNR corresponding to the frequency of the neighbour cell, or cellIndividualOffset as defined within reportConfigNR), and set to zero if not configured for the neighbour cell.
Hys is the hysteresis parameter for this event (i.e. hysteresis as defined within reportConfigNR for this event).
Thresh1 is the threshold parameter for this event (i.e. a5-Threshold1 as defined within reportConfigNR for this event).
Thresh2 is the threshold parameter for this event (i.e. a5-Threshold2 as defined within reportConfigNR for this event).
Mn, Mp are expressed in dBm in case of RSRP, or in dB in case of RSRQ and RS-SINR.
Ofn, Ocn, Hys are expressed in dB.
Thresh1is expressed in the same unit as Mp.
Thresh2 is expressed in the same unit as Mn.
NOTE 2:	The definition of Event A5 also applies to CondEvent A5.
5.5.4.7	Event A6 (Neighbour becomes offset better than SCell)
The UE shall:
1>	consider the entering condition for this event to be satisfied when condition A6-1, as specified below, is fulfilled;
1>	consider the leaving condition for this event to be satisfied when condition A6-2, as specified below, is fulfilled;
1>	for this measurement, consider the (secondary) cell corresponding to the measObjectNR associated to this event to be the serving cell.
NOTE:	The reference signal(s) of the neighbour(s) and the reference signal(s) of the SCell are both indicated in the associated measObjectNR.
Inequality A6-1 (Entering condition)
Mn + Ocn – Hys > Ms + Ocs + Off
Inequality A6-2 (Leaving condition)
Mn + Ocn + Hys < Ms + Ocs + Off
The variables in the formula are defined as follows:
Mn is the measurement result of the neighbouring cell, not taking into account any offsets.
Ocn is the cell specific offset of the neighbour cell (i.e. cellIndividualOffset as defined within the associated measObjectNR corresponding to the frequency of the neighbour cell, or cellIndividualOffset as defined within reportConfigNR), and set to zero if not configured for the neighbour cell.
Ms is the measurement result of the serving cell, not taking into account any offsets.
Ocs is the cell specific offset of the serving cell (i.e. cellIndividualOffset as defined within the associated measObjectNR), and is set to zero if not configured for the serving cell.
Hys is the hysteresis parameter for this event (i.e. hysteresis as defined within reportConfigNR for this event).
Off is the offset parameter for this event (i.e. a6-Offset as defined within reportConfigNR for this event).
Mn, Ms are expressed in dBm in case of RSRP, or in dB in case of RSRQ and RS-SINR.
Ocn, Ocs, Hys, Off are expressed in dB.
5.5.4.8	Event B1 (Inter RAT neighbour becomes better than threshold)
The UE shall:
1>	consider the entering condition for this event to be satisfied when condition B1-1, as specified below, is fulfilled;
1>	consider the leaving condition for this event to be satisfied when condition B1-2, as specified below, is fulfilled.
Inequality B1-1 (Entering condition)
Mn + Ofn + Ocn – Hys > Thresh
Inequality B1-2 (Leaving condition)
Mn + Ofn + Ocn + Hys < Thresh
The variables in the formula are defined as follows:
Mn is the measurement result of the inter-RAT neighbour cell, not taking into account any offsets.
Ofn is the measurement object specific offset of the frequency of the inter-RAT neighbour cell (i.e. eutra-Q-OffsetRange as defined within the measObjectEUTRA corresponding to the frequency of the neighbour inter-RAT cell, utra-FDD-Q-OffsetRange as defined within the measObjectUTRA-FDD corresponding to the frequency of the neighbour inter-RAT cell).
Ocn is the cell specific offset of the inter-RAT neighbour cell (i.e. cellIndividualOffset as defined within the measObjectEUTRA corresponding to the frequency of the neighbour inter-RAT cell, or cellIndividualOffset as defined within reportConfigInterRAT), and set to zero if not configured for the neighbour cell.
Hys is the hysteresis parameter for this event (i.e. hysteresis as defined within reportConfigInterRAT for this event).
Thresh is the threshold parameter for this event (i.e. b1-ThresholdEUTRA as defined within reportConfigInterRAT for this event, b1-ThresholdUTRA-FDD as defined for UTRA-FDD within reportConfigInterRAT for this event).
Mn is expressed in dBm or in dB, depending on the measurement quantity of the inter-RAT neighbour cell.
Ofn, Ocn, Hys are expressed in dB.
Thresh is expressed in the same unit as Mn.
5.5.4.9	Event B2 (PCell becomes worse than threshold1 and inter RAT neighbour becomes better than threshold2)
The UE shall:
1>	consider the entering condition for this event to be satisfied when both condition B2-1 and condition B2-2, as specified below, are fulfilled;
1>	consider the leaving condition for this event to be satisfied when condition B2-3 or condition B2-4, i.e. at least one of the two, as specified below, is fulfilled;
Inequality B2-1 (Entering condition 1)
Mp + Hys < Thresh1
Inequality B2-2 (Entering condition 2)
Mn + Ofn + Ocn – Hys > Thresh2
Inequality B2-3 (Leaving condition 1)
Mp – Hys > Thresh1
Inequality B2-4 (Leaving condition 2)
Mn + Ofn + Ocn + Hys < Thresh2
The variables in the formula are defined as follows:
Mp is the measurement result of the PCell, not taking into account any offsets.
Mn is the measurement result of the inter-RAT neighbour cell, not taking into account any offsets.
Ofn is the measurement object specific offset of the frequency of the inter-RAT neighbour cell (i.e. eutra-Q-OffsetRange as defined within the measObjectEUTRA corresponding to the frequency of the inter-RAT neighbour cell, utra-FDD-Q-OffsetRange as defined within the measObjectUTRA-FDD corresponding to the frequency of the neighbour inter-RAT cell).
Ocn is the cell specific offset of the inter-RAT neighbour cell (i.e. cellIndividualOffset as defined within the measObjectEUTRA corresponding to the frequency of the neighbour inter-RAT cell, or cellIndividualOffset as defined within reportConfigInterRAT), and set to zero if not configured for the neighbour cell.
Hys is the hysteresis parameter for this event (i.e. hysteresis as defined within reportConfigInterRAT for this event).
Thresh1 is the threshold parameter for this event (i.e. b2-Threshold1 as defined within reportConfigInterRAT for this event).
Thresh2 is the threshold parameter for this event (i.e. b2-Threshold2EUTRA as defined within reportConfigInterRAT for this event, b2-Threshold2UTRA-FDD as defined for UTRA-FDD within reportConfigInterRAT for this event).
Mp is expressed in dBm in case of RSRP, or in dB in case of RSRQ and SINR.
Mn is expressed in dBm or dB, depending on the measurement quantity of the inter-RAT neighbour cell.
Ofn, Ocn, Hys are expressed in dB.
Thresh1 is expressed in the same unit as Mp.
Thresh2 is expressed in the same unit as Mn.
5.5.4.10	Event I1 (Interference becomes higher than threshold)
The UE shall:
1>	consider the entering condition for this event to be satisfied when condition I1-1, as specified below, is fulfilled;
1>	consider the leaving condition for this event to be satisfied when condition I1-2, as specified below, is fulfilled.
Inequality I1-1 (Entering condition)
Mi – Hys > Thresh
Inequality I1-2 (Leaving condition)
Mi+ Hys < Thresh
The variables in the formula are defined as follows:
Mi is the measurement result of the interference, not taking into account any offsets.
Hys is the hysteresis parameter for this event (i.e. hysteresis as defined within reportConfigNR for this event).
Thresh is the threshold parameter for this event (i.e. i1-Threshold as defined within reportConfigNR for this event).
Mi, Thresh are expressed in dBm.
Hys is expressed in dB.
5.5.4.11	Event C1 (The NR sidelink channel busy ratio is above a threshold)
The UE shall:
1>	consider the entering condition for this event to be satisfied when condition C1-1, as specified below, is fulfilled;
1>	consider the leaving condition for this event to be satisfied when condition C1-2, as specified below, is fulfilled;
Inequality C1-1 (Entering condition)

Inequality C1-2 (Leaving condition)

The variables in the formula are defined as follows:
Ms is the measurement result of channel busy ratio of the transmission resource pool, not taking into account any offsets.
Hys is the hysteresis parameter for this event (i.e. hysteresis as defined within reportConfigNR-SL for this event).
Thresh is the threshold parameter for this event (i.e. c1-Threshold as defined within reportConfigNR-SL for this event).
Ms is expressed in decimal from 0 to 1 in steps of 0.01.
Hys is expressed is in the same unit as Ms.
Thresh is expressed in the same unit as Ms.
5.5.4.12	Event C2 (The NR sidelink channel busy ratio is below a threshold)
The UE shall:
1>	consider the entering condition for this event to be satisfied when condition C2-1, as specified below, is fulfilled;
1>	consider the leaving condition for this event to be satisfied when condition C2-2, as specified below, is fulfilled;
Inequality C2-1 (Entering condition)

Inequality C2-2 (Leaving condition)

The variables in the formula are defined as follows:
Ms is the measurement result of channel busy ratio of the transmission resource pool, not taking into account any offsets.
Hys is the hysteresis parameter for this event (i.e. hysteresis as defined within reportConfigNR-SL for this event).
Thresh is the threshold parameter for this event (i.e. c2-Threshold as defined within reportConfigNR-SL for this event).
Ms is expressed in decimal from 0 to 1 in steps of 0.01.
Hys is expressed is in the same unit as Ms.
Thresh is expressed in the same unit as Ms.
5.5.4.13	Void
5.5.4.14	Void
5.5.4.15	Event D1 (Distance between UE and referenceLocation1 is above threshold1 and distance between UE and referenceLocation2 is below threshold2)
The UE shall:
1>	consider the entering condition for this event to be satisfied when both condition D1-1 and condition D1-2, as specified below, are fulfilled;
1>	consider the leaving condition for this event to be satisfied when condition D1-3 or condition D1-4, i.e. at least one of the two, as specified below, are fulfilled;
Inequality D1-1 (Entering condition 1)

Inequality D1-2 (Entering condition 2)

Inequality D1-3 (Leaving condition 1)

Inequality D1-4 (Leaving condition 2)

The variables in the formula are defined as follows:
Ml1 is the distance between UE and a reference location for this event (i.e. referenceLocation1 as defined within reportConfigNR for this event), not taking into account any offsets.
Ml2 is the distance between UE and a reference location for this event (i.e. referenceLocation2 as defined within reportConfigNR for this event), not taking into account any offsets.
Hys is the hysteresis parameter for this event (i.e. hysteresisLocation as defined within reportConfigNR for this event).
Thresh1 is the threshold for this event defined as a distance, configured with parameter distanceThreshFromReference1, from a reference location configured with parameter referenceLocation1 within reportConfigNR for this event.
Thresh2 is the threshold for this event defined as a distance, configured with parameter distanceThreshFromReference2, from a reference location configured with parameter referenceLocation2 within reportConfigNR for this event.
Ml1 is expressed in meters.
Ml2 is expressed in the same unit as Ml1.
Hys is expressed in the same unit as Ml1.
Thresh1 is expressed in the same unit as Ml1.
Thresh2 is expressed in the same unit as Ml1.
NOTE:	The definition of Event D1 also applies to CondEvent D1.
5.5.4.15a	Event D2 (Distance between UE and the serving cell moving reference location is above threshold1 and distance between UE and a moving reference location is below threshold2)
The UE shall:
1>	consider the entering condition for this event to be satisfied when both condition D2-1 and condition D2-2, as specified below, are fulfilled;
1>	consider the leaving condition for this event to be satisfied when condition D2-3 or condition D2-4, i.e. at least one of the two, as specified below, are fulfilled;
Inequality D2-1 (Entering condition 1)

Inequality D2-2 (Entering condition 2)

Inequality D2-3 (Leaving condition 1)

Inequality D2-4 (Leaving condition 2)

The variables in the formula are defined as follows:
Ml1 is the distance between UE and a moving reference location for this event, not taking into account any offsets. The moving reference location is determined based on movingReferenceLocation and the corresponding epoch time and satellite ephemeris for the serving cell broadcast in SIB19.
Ml2 is the distance between UE and a moving reference location for this event, not taking into account any offsets. The moving reference location is determined based on the parameter referenceLocation and the corresponding epoch time and satellite ephemeris configured within the MeasObjectNR associated to this event.
Hys is the hysteresis parameter for this event (i.e. hysteresisLocation as defined within reportConfigNR for this event).
Thresh1 is the threshold for this event defined as a distance, configured with parameter distanceThreshFromReference1 in reportConfigNR for this event, from a moving reference location determined based on the parameter movingReferenceLocation and the corresponding epoch time and satellite ephemeris for the serving cell broadcast in SIB19.
Thresh2 is the threshold for this event defined as a distance, configured with parameter distanceThreshFromReference2 in reportConfigNR for this event, from a moving reference location determined based on the parameter referenceLocation and the corresponding epoch time and satellite ephemeris configured within the MeasObjectNR associated to this event.
Ml1 is expressed in meters.
Ml2 is expressed in the same unit as Ml1.
Hys is expressed in the same unit as Ml1.
Thresh1 is expressed in the same unit as Ml1.
Thresh2 is expressed in the same unit as Ml1.
NOTE:	The definition of Event D2 also applies to CondEvent D2.
5.5.4.16	CondEvent T1 (Time measured at UE is within a duration from threshold)
The UE shall:
1>	consider the entering condition for this event to be satisfied when condition T1-1, as specified below, is fulfilled;
1>	consider the leaving condition for this event to be satisfied when condition T1-2, as specified below, is fulfilled;
Inequality T1-1 (Entering condition)
Mt > Thresh1
Inequality T1-2 (Leaving condition)
Mt > Thresh1 + Duration
The variables in the formula are defined as follows:
Mt is the time measured at UE.
Thresh1 is the threshold parameter for this event (i.e. t1-Threshold as defined within reportConfigNR for this event).
Duration is the duration parameter for this event (i.e. duration as defined within reportConfigNR for this event).
Mt is expressed in ms.
Thresh1 is expressed in the same unit as Mt.
Duration is expressed in the same unit as Mt.
5.5.4.17	Event X1 (Serving L2 U2N Relay UE becomes worse than threshold1 and NR Cell becomes better than threshold2)
The UE shall:
1>	consider the entering condition for this event to be satisfied when both condition X1-1 and condition X1-2, as specified below, are fulfilled;
1>	consider the leaving condition for this event to be satisfied when condition X1-3 or condition X1-4, i.e. at least one of the two, as specified below, is fulfilled;
Inequality X1-1 (Entering condition 1)
Mr + Hys < Thresh1
Inequality X1-2 (Entering condition 2)
Mn + Ofn + Ocn – Hys > Thresh2
Inequality X1-3 (Leaving condition 1)
Mr – Hys > Thresh1
Inequality X1-4 (Leaving condition 2)
Mn + Ofn + Ocn + Hys < Thresh2
The variables in the formula are defined as follows:
Mr is the measurement result of the serving L2 U2N Relay UE, not taking into account any offsets.
Mn is the measurement result of the NR cell, not taking into account any offsets.
Ofn is the measurement object specific offset of the reference signal of the NR cell (i.e. offsetMO as defined within measObjectNR corresponding to the frequency of the NR cell).
Ocn is the cell specific offset of the NR cell (i.e. cellIndividualOffset as defined within measObjectNR corresponding to the frequency of the NR cell, or cellIndividualOffset as defined within reportConfigNR), and set to zero if not configured for the cell.
Hys is the hysteresis parameter for this event.
Thresh1 is the threshold parameter for this event (i.e. x1-Threshold1-Relay/eventX1-SD-Threshold1 as defined within reportConfigNR for this event).
Thresh2 is the threshold parameter for this event (i.e. x1-Threshold2 as defined within reportConfigNR for this event).
Mr is expressed in dBm.
Mn is expressed in dBm in case of RSRP, or in dB in case of RSRQ and RS-SINR.
Ofn, Ocn, Hys are expressed in dB.
Thresh1 is expressed in the same unit as Mr.
Thresh2 is expressed in the same unit as Mn.
5.5.4.18	Event X2 (Serving L2 U2N Relay UE becomes worse than threshold)
The UE shall:
1>	consider the entering condition for this event to be satisfied when condition X2-1, as specified below, is fulfilled;
1>	consider the leaving condition for this event to be satisfied when condition X2-2, as specified below, is fulfilled;
Inequality X2-1 (Entering condition)
Mr + Hys < Thresh
Inequality X2-2 (Leaving condition)
Mr – Hys > Thresh
The variables in the formula are defined as follows:
Mr is the measurement result of the serving L2 U2N Relay UE, not taking into account any offsets.
Hys is the hysteresis parameter for this event.
Thresh is the threshold parameter for this event (i.e. x2-Threshold-Relay/eventX2-SD-Threshold as defined within reportConfigNR for this event).
Mr is expressed in dBm.
Hys are expressed in dB.
Thresh is expressed in the same unit as Mr.
5.5.4.19	Event Y1 (PCell becomes worse than threshold1 and candidate L2 U2N Relay UE becomes better than threshold2)
The UE shall:
1>	consider the entering condition for this event to be satisfied when both condition Y1-1 and condition Y1-2, as specified below, are fulfilled;
1>	consider the leaving condition for this event to be satisfied when condition Y1-3 or condition Y1-4, i.e. at least one of the two, as specified below, is fulfilled;
Inequality Y1-1 (Entering condition 1)
Mp + Hys < Thresh1
Inequality Y1-2 (Entering condition 2)
Mr– Hys > Thresh2
Inequality Y1-3 (Leaving condition 1)
Mp – Hys > Thresh1
Inequality Y1-4 (Leaving condition 2)
Mr + Hys < Thresh2
The variables in the formula are defined as follows:
Mp is the measurement result of the PCell, not taking into account any offsets.
Mr is the measurement result of the candidate L2 U2N Relay UE, not taking into account any offsets.
Hys is the hysteresis parameter for this event (i.e. hysteresis as defined within reportConfigInterRAT for this event).
Thresh1 is the threshold parameter for this event (i.e. y1-Threshold1 as defined within reportConfigInterRAT for this event).
Thresh2 is the threshold parameter for this event (i.e. y1-Threshold2-Relay as defined within reportConfigInterRAT for this event).
Mp is expressed in dBm in case of RSRP, or in dB in case of RSRQ and SINR.
Mr is expressed in dBm or dB, depending on the measurement quantity of candidate L2 U2N Relay UE.
Hys are expressed in dB.
Thresh1 is expressed in the same unit as Mp.
Thresh2 is expressed in the same unit as Mr.
5.5.4.20	Event Y2 (Candidate L2 U2N Relay UE becomes better than threshold)
The UE shall:
1>	consider the entering condition for this event to be satisfied when condition Y2-1, as specified below, is fulfilled;
1>	consider the leaving condition for this event to be satisfied when condition Y2-2, as specified below, is fulfilled;
Inequality Y2-1 (Entering condition)
Mr– Hys > Thresh
Inequality Y2-2 (Leaving condition)
Mr + Hys < Thresh
The variables in the formula are defined as follows:
Mr is the measurement result of the candidate L2 U2N Relay UE, not taking into account any offsets.
Hys is the hysteresis parameter for this event (i.e. hysteresis as defined within reportConfigInterRAT for this event).
Thresh is the threshold parameter for this event (i.e. y2-Threshold-Relay as defined within reportConfigInterRAT for this event).
Mr is expressed in dBm or dB, depending on the measurement quantity of candidate L2 U2N Relay UE.
Hys are expressed in dB.
Thresh is expressed in the same unit as Mr.
5.5.4.20b	Event Z1 (Serving L2 U2N Relay UE becomes worse than threshold1 and Candidate L2 U2N Relay UE becomes better than threshold2)
The UE shall:
1>	consider the entering condition for this event to be satisfied when both condition Z1-1 and condition Z1-2, as specified below, are fulfilled;
1>	consider the leaving condition for this event to be satisfied when condition Z1-3 or condition Z1-4, i.e. at least one of the two, as specified below, is fulfilled;
Inequality Z1-1 (Entering condition 1)
Mr + Hys < Thresh1
Inequality Z1-2 (Entering condition 2)
Mn – Hys > Thresh2
Inequality Z1-3 (Leaving condition 1)
Mr – Hys > Thresh1
Inequality Z1-4 (Leaving condition 2)
Mn + Hys < Thresh2
The variables in the formula are defined as follows:
Mr is the measurement result of the serving L2 U2N Relay UE, not taking into account any offsets.
Mn is the measurement result of the candidate L2 U2N Relay UE, not taking into account any offsets.
Hys is the hysteresis parameter for this event (i.e. hysteresis as defined within reportConfigInterRAT for this event).
Thresh1 is the threshold parameter for this event (i.e. sl-rsrp in z1-Threshold1-Relay as defined within reportConfigInterRAT if the UE measures SL-RSRP, or sd-rsrp in z1-Threshold1-Relay as defined within reportConfigInterRAT if the UE measures SD-RSRP for this event).
Thresh2 is the threshold parameter for this event (i.e. z1-Threshold2-Relay as defined within reportConfigInterRAT for this event).
Mr is expressed in dBm or dB, depending on the measurement quantity of serving L2 U2N Relay UE.
Mn is expressed in dBm or dB, depending on the measurement quantity of candidate L2 U2N Relay UE.
Hys are expressed in dB.
Thresh1 is expressed in the same unit as Mr.
Thresh2 is expressed in the same unit as Mn.
5.5.4.21	Event H1 (The Aerial UE altitude becomes higher than a threshold)
The UE shall:
1>	consider the entering condition for this event to be satisfied when condition H1-1, as specified below, is fulfilled;
1>	consider the leaving condition for this event to be satisfied when condition H1-2, as specified below, is fulfilled;
Inequality H1-1 (Entering condition)
Ms – Hys > Thresh
Inequality H1-2 (Leaving condition)
Ms + Hys < Thresh
The variables in the formula are defined as follows:
Ms is the Aerial UE altitude relative to the sea level.
Hys is the hysteresis parameter for this event (i.e. h1-Hysteresis as defined within reportConfigNR for this event).
Thresh is the threshold parameter for this event (i.e. h1-Threshold as defined within reportConfigNR for this event).
Ms, Hys, Thresh are expressed in meters.
5.5.4.22	Event H2 (The Aerial UE altitude becomes lower than a threshold)
The UE shall:
1>	consider the entering condition for this event to be satisfied when condition H2-1, as specified below, is fulfilled;
1>	consider the leaving condition for this event to be satisfied when condition H2-2, as specified below, is fulfilled;
Inequality H2-1 (Entering condition)
Ms + Hys < Thresh
Inequality H2-2 (Leaving condition)
Ms – Hys > Thresh
The variables in the formula are defined as follows:
Ms is the Aerial UE altitude relative to the sea level.
Hys is the hysteresis parameter for this event (i.e. h2-Hysteresis as defined within reportConfigNR for this event).
Thresh is the threshold parameter for this event (i.e. h2-Threshold as defined within reportConfigNR for this event).
Ms, Hys, Thresh are expressed in meters.
5.5.4.23	Event A3H1 (Neighbour becomes offset better than SpCell and the Aerial UE altitude becomes higher than a threshold)
The UE shall:
1>	consider the entering condition for this event to be satisfied when both condition A3H1-1 and condition A3H1-2, as specified below, are fulfilled;
1>	consider the leaving condition for this event to be satisfied when condition A3H1-3 or condition A3H1-4, i.e. at least one of the two, as specified below, is fulfilled;
1>	use the SpCell for Mp, Ofp and Ocp.
NOTE 1:	The cell(s) that triggers the event has reference signals indicated in the measObjectNR associated to this event which may be different from the NR SpCell measObjectNR.
Inequality A3H1-1 (Entering condition 1)
Mn + Ofn + Ocn – Hys1 > Mp + Ofp + Ocp + Off
Inequality A3H1-2 (Entering condition 2)
Ms – Hys2 > Thresh
Inequality A3H1-3 (Leaving condition 1)
Mn + Ofn + Ocn + Hys1 < Mp + Ofp + Ocp + Off
Inequality A3H1-4 (Leaving condition 2)
Ms + Hys2 < Thresh
The variables in the formula are defined as follows:
Mn is the measurement result of the neighbouring cell, not taking into account any offsets.
Ofn is the measurement object specific offset of the reference signal of the neighbour cell (i.e. offsetMO as defined within measObjectNR corresponding to the frequency of the neighbour cell).
Ocn is the cell specific offset of the neighbour cell (i.e. cellIndividualOffset as defined within measObjectNR corresponding to the frequency of the neighbour cell, or cellIndividualOffset as defined within reportConfigNR), and set to zero if not configured for the neighbour cell.
Mp is the measurement result of the SpCell, not taking into account any offsets.
Ofp is the measurement object specific offset of the SpCell (i.e. offsetMO as defined within measObjectNR corresponding to the SpCell).
Ocp is the cell specific offset of the SpCell (i.e. cellIndividualOffset as defined within measObjectNR corresponding to the SpCell), and is set to zero if not configured for the SpCell.
Hys1 is the hysteresis parameter for this event (i.e. a3-Hysteresis as defined within reportConfigNR for this event).
Off is the offset parameter for this event (i.e. a3-Offset as defined within reportConfigNR for this event).
Ms is the Aerial UE altitude relative to the sea level.
Hys2 is the hysteresis parameter for this event (i.e. h1-Hysteresis as defined within reportConfigNR for this event).
Thresh is the threshold parameter for this event (i.e. h1-Threshold as defined within reportConfigNR for this event).
Mn, Mp are expressed in dBm in case of RSRP, or in dB in case of RSRQ and RS-SINR.
Ofn, Ocn, Hys1, Ofp, Ocp, Off are expressed in dB.
Ms, Hys2, Thresh are expressed in meters.
5.5.4.24	Event A3H2 (Neighbour becomes offset better than SpCell and the Aerial UE altitude becomes lower than a threshold)
The UE shall:
1>	consider the entering condition for this event to be satisfied when both condition A3H2-1 and condition A3H2-2, as specified below, are fulfilled;
1>	consider the leaving condition for this event to be satisfied when condition A3H2-3 or condition A3H2-4, i.e. at least one of the two, as specified below, is fulfilled;
1>	use the SpCell for Mp, Ofp and Ocp.
NOTE:	The cell(s) that triggers the event has reference signals indicated in the measObjectNR associated to this event which may be different from the NR SpCell measObjectNR.
Inequality A3H2-1 (Entering condition 1)
Mn + Ofn + Ocn – Hys1 > Mp + Ofp + Ocp + Off
Inequality A3H2-2 (Entering condition 2)
Ms + Hys2 < Thresh
Inequality A3H2-3 (Leaving condition 1)
Mn + Ofn + Ocn + Hys1 < Mp + Ofp + Ocp + Off
Inequality A3H1-4 (Leaving condition 2)
Ms – Hys2 > Thresh
The variables in the formula are defined as follows:
Mn is the measurement result of the neighbouring cell, not taking into account any offsets.
Ofn is the measurement object specific offset of the reference signal of the neighbour cell (i.e. offsetMO as defined within measObjectNR corresponding to the frequency of the neighbour cell).
Ocn is the cell specific offset of the neighbour cell (i.e. cellIndividualOffset as defined within measObjectNR corresponding to the frequency of the neighbour cell, or cellIndividualOffset as defined within reportConfigNR), and set to zero if not configured for the neighbour cell.
Mp is the measurement result of the SpCell, not taking into account any offsets.
Ofp is the measurement object specific offset of the SpCell (i.e. offsetMO as defined within measObjectNR corresponding to the SpCell).
Ocp is the cell specific offset of the SpCell (i.e. cellIndividualOffset as defined within measObjectNR corresponding to the SpCell), and is set to zero if not configured for the SpCell.
Hys1 is the hysteresis parameter for this event (i.e. a3-Hysteresis as defined within reportConfigNR for this event).
Off is the offset parameter for this event (i.e. a3-Offset as defined within reportConfigNR for this event).
Ms is the Aerial UE altitude relative to the sea level.
Hys2 is the hysteresis parameter for this event (i.e. h2-Hysteresis as defined within reportConfigNR for this event).
Thresh is the threshold parameter for this event (i.e. h2-Threshold as defined within reportConfigNR for this event).
Mn, Mp are expressed in dBm in case of RSRP, or in dB in case of RSRQ and RS-SINR.
Ofn, Ocn, Hys1, Ofp, Ocp, Off are expressed in dB.
Ms, Hys2, Thresh are expressed in meters.
5.5.4.25	Event A4H1 (Neighbour becomes better than threshold1 and the Aerial UE altitude becomes higher than a threshold2)
The UE shall:
1>	consider the entering condition for this event to be satisfied when both condition A4H1-1 and condition A4H1-2, as specified below, are fulfilled;
1>	consider the leaving condition for this event to be satisfied when condition A4H1-3 or condition A4H1-4, i.e. at least one of the two, as specified below, is fulfilled.
Inequality A4H1-1 (Entering condition 1)
Mn + Ofn + Ocn – Hys1 > Thresh1
Inequality A4H1-2 (Entering condition 2)
Ms – Hys2 > Thresh2
Inequality A4H1-3 (Leaving condition 1)
Mn + Ofn + Ocn + Hys1 < Thresh1
Inequality A4H1-4 (Leaving condition 2)
Ms + Hys2 < Thresh2
The variables in the formula are defined as follows:
Mn is the measurement result of the neighbouring cell, not taking into account any offsets.
Ofn is the measurement object specific offset of the neighbour cell (i.e. offsetMO as defined within measObjectNR corresponding to the frequency of the neighbour cell).
Ocn is the cell specific offset of the neighbour cell (i.e. cellIndividualOffset as defined within measObjectNR corresponding to the frequency of the neighbour cell, or cellIndividualOffset as defined within reportConfigNR), and set to zero if not configured for the neighbour cell.
Hys1 is the hysteresis parameter for this event (i.e. a4-Hysteresis as defined within reportConfigNR for this event).
Thresh1 is the threshold parameter for this event (i.e. a4-Threshold as defined within reportConfigNR for this event).
Ms is the Aerial UE altitude relative to the sea level.
Hys2 is the hysteresis parameter for this event (i.e. h1-Hysteresis as defined within reportConfigNR for this event).
Thresh2 is the threshold parameter for this event (i.e. h1-Threshold as defined within reportConfigNR for this event).
Mn is expressed in dBm in case of RSRP, or in dB in case of RSRQ and RS-SINR.
Ofn, Ocn, Hys1 are expressed in dB.
Thresh1 is expressed in the same unit as Mn.
Ms, Hys2, Thresh2 are expressed in meters.
5.5.4.26	Event A4H2 (Neighbour becomes better than threshold1 and the Aerial UE altitude becomes lower than a threshold2)
The UE shall:
1>	consider the entering condition for this event to be satisfied when both condition A4H2-1 and condition A4H2-2, as specified below, are fulfilled;
1>	consider the leaving condition for this event to be satisfied when condition A4H2-3 or condition A4H2-4, i.e. at least one of the two, as specified below, is fulfilled.
Inequality A4H2-1 (Entering condition 1)
Mn + Ofn + Ocn – Hys1 > Thresh1
Inequality A4H2-2 (Entering condition 2)
Ms + Hys2 < Thresh2
Inequality A4H2-3 (Leaving condition 1)
Mn + Ofn + Ocn + Hys1 < Thresh1
Inequality A4H2-4 (Leaving condition 2)
Ms – Hys2 > Thresh2
The variables in the formula are defined as follows:
Mn is the measurement result of the neighbouring cell, not taking into account any offsets.
Ofn is the measurement object specific offset of the neighbour cell (i.e. offsetMO as defined within measObjectNR corresponding to the frequency of the neighbour cell).
Ocn is the cell specific offset of the neighbour cell (i.e. cellIndividualOffset as defined within measObjectNR corresponding to the frequency of the neighbour cell, or cellIndividualOffset as defined within reportConfigNR), and set to zero if not configured for the neighbour cell.
Hys1 is the hysteresis parameter for this event (i.e. a4-Hysteresis as defined within reportConfigNR for this event).
Thresh1 is the threshold parameter for this event (i.e. a4-Threshold as defined within reportConfigNR for this event).
Ms is the Aerial UE altitude relative to the sea level.
Hys2 is the hysteresis parameter for this event (i.e. h2-Hysteresis as defined within reportConfigNR for this event).
Thresh2 is the threshold parameter for this event (i.e. h2-Threshold as defined within reportConfigNR for this event).
Mn is expressed in dBm in case of RSRP, or in dB in case of RSRQ and RS-SINR.
Ofn, Ocn, Hys1 are expressed in dB.
Thresh1 is expressed in the same unit as Mn.
Ms, Hys2, Thresh2 are expressed in meters.
5.5.4.27	Event A5H1 (SpCell becomes worse than threshold1 and neighbour becomes better than threshold2 and the Aerial UE altitude becomes higher than a threshold3)
The UE shall:
1>	consider the entering condition for this event to be satisfied when all of condition A5H1-1 and condition A5H1-2 and condition A5H1-3, as specified below, are fulfilled;
1>	consider the leaving condition for this event to be satisfied when condition A5H1-4 or condition A5H1-5 or condition A5H1-6, i.e. at least one of the three, as specified below, is fulfilled;
1>	use the SpCell for Mp.
NOTE:	The parameters of the reference signal(s) of the cell(s) that triggers the event are indicated in the measObjectNR associated to the event which may be different from the measObjectNR of the NR SpCell.
Inequality A5H1-1 (Entering condition 1)
Mp + Hys1 < Thresh1
Inequality A5H1-2 (Entering condition 2)
Mn + Ofn + Ocn – Hys1 > Thresh2
Inequality A5H1-3 (Entering condition 3)
Ms – Hys2 > Thresh3
Inequality A5H1-4 (Leaving condition 1)
Mp – Hys1 > Thresh1
Inequality A5H1-5 (Leaving condition 2)
Mn + Ofn + Ocn + Hys1 < Thresh2
Inequality A5H1-6 (Leaving condition 3)
Ms + Hys2 < Thresh3
The variables in the formula are defined as follows:
Mp is the measurement result of the NR SpCell, not taking into account any offsets.
Mn is the measurement result of the neighbouring cell, not taking into account any offsets.
Ofn is the measurement object specific offset of the neighbour cell (i.e. offsetMO as defined within measObjectNR corresponding to the frequency of the neighbour cell).
Ocn is the cell specific offset of the neighbour cell (i.e. cellIndividualOffset as defined within measObjectNR corresponding to the frequency of the neighbour cell, or cellIndividualOffset as defined within reportConfigNR), and set to zero if not configured for the neighbour cell.
Hys1 is the hysteresis parameter for this event (i.e. a5-Hysteresis as defined within reportConfigNR for this event).
Thresh1 is the threshold parameter for this event (i.e. a5-Threshold1 as defined within reportConfigNR for this event).
Thresh2 is the threshold parameter for this event (i.e. a5-Threshold2 as defined within reportConfigNR for this event).
Ms is the Aerial UE altitude relative to the sea level.
Hys2 is the hysteresis parameter for this event (i.e. h1-Hysteresis as defined within reportConfigNR for this event).
Thresh3 is the threshold parameter for this event (i.e. h1-Threshold as defined within reportConfigNR for this event).
Mn, Mp are expressed in dBm in case of RSRP, or in dB in case of RSRQ and RS-SINR.
Ofn, Ocn, Hys1 are expressed in dB.
Thresh1 is expressed in the same unit as Mp.
Thresh2 is expressed in the same unit as Mn.
Ms, Hys2, Thresh3 are expressed in meters.
5.5.4.28	Event A5H2 (SpCell becomes worse than threshold1 and neighbour becomes better than threshold2 and the Aerial UE altitude becomes lower than a threshold3)
The UE shall:
1>	consider the entering condition for this event to be satisfied when all of condition A5H2-1 and condition A5H2-2 and condition A5H2-3, as specified below, are fulfilled;
1>	consider the leaving condition for this event to be satisfied when condition A5H2-4 or condition A5H2-5 or condition A5H2-6, i.e. at least one of the three, as specified below, is fulfilled;
1>	use the SpCell for Mp.
NOTE:	The parameters of the reference signal(s) of the cell(s) that triggers the event are indicated in the measObjectNR associated to the event which may be different from the measObjectNR of the NR SpCell.
Inequality A5H2-1 (Entering condition 1)
Mp + Hys1 < Thresh1
Inequality A5H2-2 (Entering condition 2)
Mn + Ofn + Ocn – Hys1 > Thresh2
Inequality A5H2-3 (Entering condition 3)
Ms + Hys2 < Thresh3
Inequality A5H2-4 (Leaving condition 1)
Mp – Hys1 > Thresh1
Inequality A5H2-5 (Leaving condition 2)
Mn + Ofn + Ocn + Hys1 < Thresh2
Inequality A5H2-6 (Leaving condition 3)
Ms – Hys2 > Thresh3
The variables in the formula are defined as follows:
Mp is the measurement result of the NR SpCell, not taking into account any offsets.
Mn is the measurement result of the neighbouring cell, not taking into account any offsets.
Ofn is the measurement object specific offset of the frequency of the neighbour cell (i.e. offsetMO as defined within measObjectNR corresponding to the neighbour cell).
Ocn is the cell specific offset of the neighbour cell (i.e. cellIndividualOffset as defined within measObjectNR corresponding to the frequency of the neighbour cell, or cellIndividualOffset as defined within reportConfigNR), and set to zero if not configured for the neighbour cell.
Hys1 is the hysteresis parameter for this event (i.e. a5-Hysteresis as defined within reportConfigNR for this event).
Thresh1 is the threshold parameter for this event (i.e. a5-Threshold1 as defined within reportConfigNR for this event).
Thresh2 is the threshold parameter for this event (i.e. a5-Threshold2 as defined within reportConfigNR for this event).
Ms is the Aerial UE altitude relative to the sea level.
Hys2 is the hysteresis parameter for this event (i.e. h2-Hysteresis as defined within reportConfigNR for this event).
Thresh3 is the threshold parameter for this event (i.e. h2-Threshold as defined within reportConfigNR for this event).
Mn, Mp are expressed in dBm in case of RSRP, or in dB in case of RSRQ and RS-SINR.
Ofn, Ocn, Hys1 are expressed in dB.
Thresh1 is expressed in the same unit as Mp.
Thresh2 is expressed in the same unit as Mn.
Ms, Hys2, Thresh3 are expressed in meters.
5.5.5	Measurement reporting
5.5.5.1	General

Figure 5.5.5.1-1: Measurement reporting
The purpose of this procedure is to transfer measurement results from the UE to the network. The UE shall initiate this procedure only after successful AS security activation.
The UE shall, for each entry in the VarMeasReportList:
1>	if the eventH1 or eventH2 is configured in the corresponding reportConfig associated with the measId that triggered the measurement reporting:
2>	for all the entries in the VarMeasReportList for which the measurement reporting procedure was triggered and the corresponding reportConfig is configured with the same eventID and simulMultiTriggerSingleMeasReport set to true:
3>	except for the entry corresponding to the event for which the difference between the configured altitude threshold and the altitude of the UE is the smallest, remove all other measurement reporting entries from the VarMeasReportList, if any, and stop the associated periodical reporting timer(s), if running;
1>	else if the eventA3H1 or eventA3H2 or eventA4H1 or eventA4H2 or eventA5H1 or eventA5H2 is configured in the corresponding reportConfig associated with the measId that triggered the measurement reporting:
2>	for all the entries in the VarMeasReportList associated with the same measObjectNR for which the measurement reporting procedure was triggered and the corresponding reportConfig is configured with the same eventID and simulMultiTriggerSingleMeasReport set to true:
3>	except for the entry corresponding to the event for which the difference between the configured altitude threshold and the altitude of the UE is the smallest, remove all other measurement reporting entries from the VarMeasReportList, if any, and stop the associated periodical reporting timer(s), if running;
For the measId for which the measurement reporting procedure was triggered, the UE shall set the measResults within the MeasurementReport message as follows:
1>	set the measId to the measurement identity that triggered the measurement reporting;
1>	for each serving cell configured with servingCellMO:
2>	if the reportConfig associated with the measId that triggered the measurement reporting includes rsType:
3>	if the serving cell measurements based on the rsType included in the reportConfig that triggered the measurement report are available:
4>	set the measResultServingCell within measResultServingMOList to include RSRP, RSRQ and the available SINR of the serving cell, derived based on the rsType included in the reportConfig that triggered the measurement report;
2>	else:
3>	if SSB based serving cell measurements are available:
4>	set the measResultServingCell within measResultServingMOList to include RSRP, RSRQ and the available SINR of the serving cell, derived based on SSB;
3>	else if CSI-RS based serving cell measurements are available:
4>	set the measResultServingCell within measResultServingMOList to include RSRP, RSRQ and the available SINR of the serving cell, derived based on CSI-RS;
1>	set the servCellId within measResultServingMOList to include each NR serving cell that is configured with servingCellMO, if any;
1>	if the reportConfig associated with the measId that triggered the measurement reporting includes reportQuantityRS-Indexes and maxNrofRS-IndexesToReport:
2>	for each serving cell configured with servingCellMO, include beam measurement information according to the associated reportConfig as described in 5.5.5.2;
1>	if the reportConfig associated with the measId that triggered the measurement reporting includes reportAddNeighMeas:
2>	for each measObjectId referenced in the measIdList which is also referenced with servingCellMO, other than the measObjectId corresponding with the measId that triggered the measurement reporting:
3>	if the measObjectNR indicated by the servingCellMO includes the RS resource configuration corresponding to the rsType indicated in the reportConfig:
4>	set the measResultBestNeighCell within measResultServingMOList to include the physCellId and the available measurement quantities based on the reportQuantityCell and rsType indicated in reportConfig of the non-serving cell corresponding to the concerned measObjectNR with the highest measured RSRP if RSRP measurement results are available for cells corresponding to this measObjectNR, otherwise with the highest measured RSRQ if RSRQ measurement results are available for cells corresponding to this measObjectNR, otherwise with the highest measured SINR;
4>	if the reportConfig associated with the measId that triggered the measurement reporting includes reportQuantityRS-Indexes and maxNrofRS-IndexesToReport:
5>	for each best non-serving cell included in the measurement report:
6>	include beam measurement information according to the associated reportConfig as described in 5.5.5.2;
1>	if the reportConfig associated with the measId that triggered the measurement reporting is set to eventTriggered and eventID is set to eventA3, or eventA4, or eventA5, or eventB1, or eventB2, or eventA3H1, or eventA3H2, or eventA4H1, or eventA4H2, or eventA5H1, or eventA5H2:
2>	if the UE is in NE-DC and the measurement configuration that triggered this measurement report is associated with the MCG:
3>	set the measResultServFreqListEUTRA-SCG to include an entry for each E-UTRA SCG serving frequency with the following:
4>	include carrierFreq of the E-UTRA serving frequency;
4>	set the measResultServingCell to include the available measurement quantities that the UE is configured to measure by the measurement configuration associated with the SCG;
4>	if reportConfig associated with the measId that triggered the measurement reporting includes reportAddNeighMeas:
5>	set the measResultServFreqListEUTRA-SCG to include within measResultBestNeighCell the quantities of the best non-serving cell, based on RSRP, on the concerned serving frequency;
1>	if reportConfig associated with the measId that triggered the measurement reporting is set to eventTriggered and eventID is set to eventA3, or eventA4, or eventA5, or eventA3H1, or eventA3H2, or eventA4H1, or eventA4H2, or eventA5H1, or eventA5H2:
2>	if the UE is in NR-DC and the measurement configuration that triggered this measurement report is associated with the MCG:
3>	set the measResultServFreqListNR-SCG to include for each NR SCG serving cell that is configured with servingCellMO, if any, the following:
4>	if the reportConfig associated with the measId that triggered the measurement reporting includes rsType:
5>	if the serving cell measurements based on the rsType included in the reportConfig that triggered the measurement report are available according to the measurement configuration associated with the SCG:
6>	set the measResultServingCell within measResultServFreqListNR-SCG to include RSRP, RSRQ and the available SINR of the serving cell, derived based on the rsType included in the reportConfig that triggered the measurement report;
4>	else:
5>	if SSB based serving cell measurements are available according to the measurement configuration associated with the SCG:
6>	set the measResultServingCell within measResultServFreqListNR-SCG to include RSRP, RSRQ and the available SINR of the serving cell, derived based on SSB;
5>	else if CSI-RS based serving cell measurements are available according to the measurement configuration associated with the SCG:
6>	set the measResultServingCell within measResultServFreqListNR-SCG to include RSRP, RSRQ and the available SINR of the serving cell, derived based on CSI-RS;
4>	if results for the serving cell derived based on SSB are included:
5>	include the ssbFrequency to the value indicated by ssbFrequency as included in the MeasObjectNR of the serving cell;
4>	if results for the serving cell derived based on CSI-RS are included:
5>	include the refFreqCSI-RS to the value indicated by refFreqCSI-RS as included in the MeasObjectNR of the serving cell;
4>	if the reportConfig associated with the measId that triggered the measurement reporting includes reportQuantityRS-Indexes and maxNrofRS-IndexesToReport:
5>	for each serving cell configured with servingCellMO, include beam measurement information according to the associated reportConfig as described in 5.5.5.2, where availability is considered according to the measurement configuration associated with the SCG;
4>	if reportConfig associated with the measId that triggered the measurement reporting includes reportAddNeighMeas:
5>	if the measObjectNR indicated by the servingCellMO includes the RS resource configuration corresponding to the rsType indicated in the reportConfig:
6>	set the measResultNeighCellListNR within measResultServFreqListNR-SCG to include one entry with the physCellId and the available measurement quantities based on the reportQuantityCell and rsType indicated in reportConfig of the non-serving cell corresponding to the concerned measObjectNR with the highest measured RSRP if RSRP measurement results are available for cells corresponding to this measObjectNR, otherwise with the highest measured RSRQ if RSRQ measurement results are available for cells corresponding to this measObjectNR, otherwise with the highest measured SINR, where availability is considered according to the measurement configuration associated with the SCG;
7>	if the reportConfig associated with the measId that triggered the measurement reporting includes reportQuantityRS-Indexes and maxNrofRS-IndexesToReport:
8>	for each best non-serving cell included in the measurement report:
9>	include beam measurement information according to the associated reportConfig as described in 5.5.5.2, where availability is considered according to the measurement configuration associated with the SCG;
1>	if the measRSSI-ReportConfig is configured within the corresponding reportConfig for this measId:
2>	set the rssi-Result to the linear average of sample value(s) provided by lower layers in the reportInterval;
2>	set the channelOccupancy to the rounded percentage of sample values which are beyond the channelOccupancyThreshold within all the sample values in the reportInterval;
1>	if the UE is acting as L2 U2N Remote UE:
2>	set the sl-MeasResultServingRelay in accordance with the following:
3>	set the cellIdentity to include the cellAccessRelatedInfo contained in the discovery message received from the serving L2 U2N Relay UE;
3>	set the sl-RelayUE-Identity to include the Source L2 ID of the serving L2 U2N Relay;
3>	if the measurement of serving L2 U2N Relay UE is based on SL-RSRP:
4>	set the sl-MeasResult to include the SL-RSRP of the serving L2 U2N Relay UE;
4>	set the sl-MeasQuantity to sl-rsrp, if supported by the UE;
3>	else:
4>	set the sl-MeasResult to include the SD-RSRP of the serving L2 U2N Relay UE;
4>	set the sl-MeasQuantity to sd-rsrp, if supported by the UE;
NOTE 1:	In case of no data transmission from L2 U2N Relay UE to L2 U2N Remote UE, it is left to UE implementation whether to use SL-RSRP or SD-RSRP when setting the sl-MeasResultServingRelay of the serving L2 U2N Relay UE.
1>	if there is at least one applicable neighbouring cell or candidate L2 U2N Relay UE to report:
2>	if the reportType is set to eventTriggered or periodical:
3>	if the measurement report concerns the candidate L2 U2N Relay UE:
4>	set the sl-MeasResultsCandRelay in measResultNeighCells to include the best candidate L2 U2N Relay UEs up to maxNrofRelayMeas in accordance with the following:
5>	if the reportType is set to eventTriggered:
6>	include the L2 U2N Relay UEs included in the relaysTriggeredList as defined within the VarMeasReportList for this measId;
5>	else:
6>	include the applicable L2 U2N Relay UEs for which the new measurement results became available since the last periodical reporting or since the measurement was initiated or reset;
5>	for each L2 U2N Relay UE that is included in the sl-MeasResultsCandRelay:
6>	set the cellIdentity to include the cellAccessRelatedInfo contained in the discovery message received from the concerned L2 U2N Relay UE;
6>	set the sl-RelayUE-Identity to include the Source L2 ID of the concerned L2 U2N Relay UE;
6>	set the sl-MeasResult to include the SD-RSRP of the concerned L2 U2N Relay UE;
5>	for each included L2 U2N Relay UE, include the layer 3 filtered measured results in accordance with the reportConfig for this measId, ordered as follows:
6>	set the sl-MeasResult to include the quantity(ies) indicated in the reportQuantityRelay within the concerned reportConfigRelay in decreasing order of the sorting quantity, determined as specified in 5.5.5.3, i.e. the best L2 U2N Relay UE is included first;
6>	if the UE supports multipathRemoteUE-PC5L2 and idle/inactive relay UE reporting, and if the sl-RelayIndication is contained in the discovery message received from the concerned L2 U2N Relay UE:
7>	set the sl-RelayIndicationMP in the sl-MeasResultsCandRelay;
3>	else:
4>	set the measResultNeighCells to include the best neighbouring cells up to maxReportCells in accordance with the following:
5>	if the reportType is set to eventTriggered and eventId is not set to eventD1 or eventD2 or eventH1 or eventH2:
6>	include the cells included in the cellsTriggeredList as defined within the VarMeasReportList for this measId;
5>	else:
6>	include the applicable cells for which the new measurement results became available since the last periodical reporting or since the measurement was initiated or reset;
5>	for each cell that is included in the measResultNeighCells, include the physCellId;
5>	if the reportType is set to eventTriggered or periodical:
6>	for each included cell, include the layer 3 filtered measured results in accordance with the reportConfig for this measId, ordered as follows:
7>	if the measObject associated with this measId concerns NR:
8>	if rsType in the associated reportConfig is set to ssb:
9>	set resultsSSB-Cell within the measResult to include the SS/PBCH block based quantity(ies) indicated in the reportQuantityCell within the concerned reportConfig, in decreasing order of the sorting quantity, determined as specified in 5.5.5.3, i.e. the best cell is included first;
9>	if reportQuantityRS-Indexes and maxNrofRS-IndexesToReport are configured, include beam measurement information as described in 5.5.5.2;
8>	else if rsType in the associated reportConfig is set to csi-rs:
9>	set resultsCSI-RS-Cell within the measResult to include the CSI-RS based quantity(ies) indicated in the reportQuantityCell within the concerned reportConfig, in decreasing order of the sorting quantity, determined as specified in 5.5.5.3, i.e. the best cell is included first;
9>	if reportQuantityRS-Indexes and maxNrofRS-IndexesToReport are configured, include beam measurement information as described in 5.5.5.2;
7>	if the measObject associated with this measId concerns E-UTRA:
8>	set the measResult to include the quantity(ies) indicated in the reportQuantity within the concerned reportConfigInterRAT in decreasing order of the sorting quantity, determined as specified in 5.5.5.3, i.e. the best cell is included first;
7>	if the measObject associated with this measId concerns UTRA-FDD and if ReportConfigInterRAT includes the reportQuantityUTRA-FDD:
8>	set the measResult to include the quantity(ies) indicated in the reportQuantityUTRA-FDD within the concerned reportConfigInterRAT in decreasing order of the sorting quantity, determined as specified in 5.5.5.3, i.e. the best cell is included first;
6>	if reportType is set to eventTriggered and reportOnBestCellChange is configured:
7>	if reportOnBestCellChange is set to n1:
8>	set the reportedBestNeighbourCell defined within the VarMeasReportList for this measId to the first cell listed in the measResultNeighCells;
7>	if reportOnBestCellChange is set to n2:
8>	set the first cell in reportedBestNeighbourCell defined within the VarMeasReportList for this measId to the first cell listed in the measResultNeighCells and the second cell in reportedBestNeighbourCell defined within the VarMeasReportList for this measId to the second cell listed in the measResultNeighCells, if available;
2>	else:
3>	if the cell indicated by cellForWhichToReportCGI is an NR cell:
4>	if plmn-IdentityInfoList of the cgi-Info for the concerned cell has been obtained:
5>	include the plmn-IdentityInfoList including plmn-IdentityList, trackingAreaCode (if available), trackingAreaList (if available), ranac (if available), cellIdentity and cellReservedForOperatorUse for each entry of the plmn-IdentityInfoList;
5>	include frequencyBandList if available;
5>	for each PLMN-IdentityInfo in plmn-IdentityInfoList:
6>	if the gNB-ID-Length is broadcast:
7>	include gNB-ID-Length;
4>	if nr-CGI-Reporting-NPN is supported by the UE and npn-IdentityInfoList of the cgi-Info for the concerned cell has been obtained:
5>	include the npn-IdentityInfoList including npn-IdentityList, trackingAreaCode, ranac (if available), cellIdentity and cellReservedForOperatorUse for each entry of the npn-IdentityInfoList;
5>	for each NPN-IdentityInfo in NPN-IdentityInfoList:
6>	if the gNB-ID-Length is broadcast:
7>	include gNB-ID-Length;
5>	include cellReservedForOtherUse if available;
4>	else if MIB indicates the SIB1 is not broadcast:
5>	include the noSIB1 including the ssb-SubcarrierOffset and pdcch-ConfigSIB1 obtained from MIB of the concerned cell;
3>	if the cell indicated by cellForWhichToReportCGI is an E-UTRA cell:
4>	if all mandatory fields of the cgi-Info-EPC for the concerned cell have been obtained:
5>	include in the cgi-Info-EPC the fields broadcasted in E-UTRA SystemInformationBlockType1 associated to EPC;
4>	if the UE is E-UTRA/5GC capable and all mandatory fields of the cgi-Info-5GC for the concerned cell have been obtained:
5>	include in the cgi-Info-5GC the fields broadcasted in E-UTRA SystemInformationBlockType1 associated to 5GC;
4>	if the mandatory present fields of the cgi-Info for the cell indicated by the cellForWhichToReportCGI in the associated measObject have been obtained:
5>	include the freqBandIndicator;
5>	if the cell broadcasts the multiBandInfoList, include the multiBandInfoList;
5>	if the cell broadcasts the freqBandIndicatorPriority, include the freqBandIndicatorPriority;
1>	if reportConfig associated with the measId that triggered the measurement reporting is set to eventTriggered and if enteringLeavingReport is configured:
2>	for each cell that is included in measResultNeighCells:
3>	if the measObject associated with this measId concerns NR:
4>	if event entry condition for the event that triggered this measurement report has been fulfilled for the cell and the cell has just been included to cellsTriggeredList:
5>	set entering to true for the concerned NR cell;
2>	if the field cellsMetLeavingCond within the VarMeasReportList for this measId is not empty:
3>	set cellsMetReportOnLeaveList to include the cell(s) in cellsMetLeavingCond;
1>	if the corresponding measObject concerns NR:
2>	if the reportSFTD-Meas is set to true within the corresponding reportConfigNR for this measId:
3>	set the measResultSFTD-NR in accordance with the following:
4>	set sfn-OffsetResult and frameBoundaryOffsetResult to the measurement results provided by lower layers;
4>	if the reportRSRP is set to true;
5>	set rsrp-Result to the RSRP of the NR PSCell derived based on SSB;
2>	else if the reportSFTD-NeighMeas is included within the corresponding reportConfigNR for this measId:
3>	for each applicable cell which measurement results are available, include an entry in the measResultCellListSFTD-NR and set the contents as follows:
4>	set physCellId to the physical cell identity of the concerned NR neighbour cell.
4>	set sfn-OffsetResult and frameBoundaryOffsetResult to the measurement results provided by lower layers;
4>	if the reportRSRP is set to true:
5>	set rsrp-Result to the RSRP of the concerned cell derived based on SSB;
1>	else if the corresponding measObject concerns E-UTRA:
2>	if the reportSFTD-Meas is set to true within the corresponding reportConfigInterRAT for this measId:
3>	set the measResultSFTD-EUTRA in accordance with the following:
4>	set sfn-OffsetResult and frameBoundaryOffsetResult to the measurement results provided by lower layers;
4>	if the reportRSRP is set to true;
5>	set rsrpResult-EUTRA to the RSRP of the EUTRA PSCell;
1>	if average uplink PDCP delay values are available:
2>	set the ul-PDCP-DelayValueResultList to include the corresponding average uplink PDCP delay values;
1>	if PDCP excess delay measurements are available:
2>	set the ul-PDCP-ExcessDelayResultList to include the corresponding PDCP excess delay measurements;
1>	if the includeCommonLocationInfo is configured in the corresponding reportConfig for this measId and detailed location information that has not been reported is available, set the content of commonLocationInfo of the locationInfo as follows:
2>	include the locationTimestamp;
2>	include the locationCoordinate, if available;
2>	include the velocityEstimate, if available;
2>	include the locationError, if available;
2>	include the locationSource, if available;
2>	if available, include the gnss-TOD-msec,
1>	if the coarseLocationRequest is set to true in the corresponding reportConfig for this measId:
2>	include coarseLocationInfo, if available;
1>	if the includeWLAN-Meas is configured in the corresponding reportConfig for this measId, set the wlan-LocationInfo of the locationInfo in the measResults as follows:
2>	if available, include the LogMeasResultWLAN, in order of decreasing RSSI for WLAN APs;
1>	if the includeBT-Meas is configured in the corresponding reportConfig for this measId, set the BT-LocationInfo of the locationInfo in the measResults as follows:
2>	if available, include the LogMeasResultBT, in order of decreasing RSSI for Bluetooth beacons;
1>	if the includeSensor-Meas is configured in the corresponding reportConfig for this measId, set the sensor-LocationInfo of the locationInfo in the measResults as follows:
2>	if available, include the sensor-MeasurementInformation;
2>	if available, include the sensor-MotionInformation;
1>	if the includeAltitudeUE is set to true in the corresponding reportConfig for this measId:
2>	set the altitudeUE to include the altitude of the UE;
1>	if there is at least one applicable transmission resource pool for NR sidelink communication/discovery (for measResultsSL):
2>	set the measResultsListSL to include the CBR measurement results in accordance with the following:
3>	if the reportType is set to eventTriggered:
4>	include the transmission resource pools included in the poolsTriggeredList as defined within the VarMeasReportList for this measId;
3>	else:
4>	include the applicable transmission resource pools for which the new measurement results became available since the last periodical reporting or since the measurement was initiated or reset;
3>	if the corresponding measObject concerns NR sidelink communication/discovery, then for each transmission resource pool to be reported:
4>	set the sl-poolReportIdentity to the identity of this transmission resource pool;
4>	set the sl-CBR-ResultsNR to the CBR measurement results on PSSCH and PSCCH of this transmission resource pool provided by lower layers, if available;
NOTE 1:	Void.
1>	if there is at least one applicable CLI measurement resource to report:
2>	if the reportType is set to cli-EventTriggered or cli-Periodical:
3>	set the measResultCLI to include the most interfering SRS resources or most interfering CLI-RSSI resources up to maxReportCLI in accordance with the following:
4>	if the reportType is set to cli-EventTriggered:
5>	if trigger quantity is set to srs-RSRP i.e. i1-Threshold is set to srs-RSRP:
6>	include the SRS resource included in the cli-TriggeredList as defined within the VarMeasReportList for this measId;
5>	if trigger quantity is set to cli-RSSI i.e. i1-Threshold is set to cli-RSSI:
6>	include the CLI-RSSI resource included in the cli-TriggeredList as defined within the VarMeasReportList for this measId;
4>	else:
5>	if reportQuantityCLI is set to srs-rsrp:
6>	include the applicable SRS resources for which the new measurement results became available since the last periodical reporting or since the measurement was initiated or reset;
5>	else:
6>	include the applicable CLI-RSSI resources for which the new measurement results became available since the last periodical reporting or since the measurement was initiated or reset;
4>	for each SRS resource that is included in the measResultCLI:
5>	include the srs-ResourceId;
5>	set srs-RSRP-Result to include the layer 3 filtered measured results in decreasing order, i.e. the most interfering SRS resource is included first;
4>	for each CLI-RSSI resource that is included in the measResultCLI:
5>	include the rssi-ResourceId;
5>	set cli-RSSI-Result to include the layer 3 filtered measured results in decreasing order, i.e. the most interfering CLI-RSSI resource is included first;
1>	if there is at least one applicable UE Rx-Tx time difference measurement to report:
2>	set measResultRxTxTimeDiff to the latest measurement result;
1>	increment the numberOfReportsSent as defined within the VarMeasReportList for this measId by 1;
1>	stop the periodical reporting timer, if running;
1>	if the numberOfReportsSent as defined within the VarMeasReportList for this measId is less than the reportAmount as defined within the corresponding reportConfig for this measId:
2>	start the periodical reporting timer with the value of reportInterval as defined within the corresponding reportConfig for this measId;
1>	else:
2>	if the reportType is set to periodical or cli-Periodical or rxTxPeriodical:
3>	remove the entry within the VarMeasReportList for this measId;
3>	remove this measId from the measIdList within VarMeasConfig;
1>	if the measurement reporting was configured by a sl-ConfigDedicatedNR received within the RRCConnectionReconfiguration:
2>	submit the MeasurementReport message to lower layers for transmission via SRB1, embedded in E-UTRA RRC message ULInformationTransferIRAT as specified TS 36.331 [10], clause 5.6.28;
1>	else if the UE is in (NG)EN-DC:
2>	if SRB3 is configured and the SCG is not deactivated:
3>	submit the MeasurementReport message via SRB3 to lower layers for transmission, upon which the procedure ends;
2>	else:
3>	submit the MeasurementReport message via E-UTRA embedded in E-UTRA RRC message ULInformationTransferMRDC as specified in TS 36.331 [10].
1>	else if the UE is in NR-DC:
2>	if the measurement configuration that triggered this measurement report is associated with the SCG:
3>	if SRB3 is configured and the SCG is not deactivated:
4>	submit the MeasurementReport message via SRB3 to lower layers for transmission, upon which the procedure ends;
3>	else:
4>	submit the MeasurementReport message via SRB1 embedded in NR RRC message ULInformationTransferMRDC as specified in 5.7.2a.3;
2>	else:
3>	submit the MeasurementReport message via SRB1 to lower layers for transmission, upon which the procedure ends;
1>	else:
2>	submit the MeasurementReport message to lower layers for transmission, upon which the procedure ends.
5.5.5.2	Reporting of beam measurement information
For beam measurement information to be included in a measurement report the UE shall:
1>	if reportType is set to eventTriggered or reportOnScellActivation:
2>	consider the trigger quantity as the sorting quantity if available, otherwise RSRP as sorting quantity if available, otherwise RSRQ as sorting quantity if available, otherwise SINR as sorting quantity;
1>	if reportType is set to periodical:
2>	if a single reporting quantity is set to true in reportQuantityRS-Indexes;
3>	consider the configured single quantity as the sorting quantity;
2>	else:
3>	if rsrp is set to true;
4>	consider RSRP as the sorting quantity;
3>	else:
4>	consider RSRQ as the sorting quantity;
1>	set rsIndexResults to include up to maxNrofRS-IndexesToReport SS/PBCH block indexes or CSI-RS indexes in order of decreasing sorting quantity as follows:
2>	if the measurement information to be included is based on SS/PBCH block:
3>	include within resultsSSB-Indexes the index associated to the best beam for that SS/PBCH block sorting quantity and if absThreshSS-BlocksConsolidation is included in the VarMeasConfig for the measObject associated to the cell for which beams are to be reported, the remaining beams whose sorting quantity is above absThreshSS-BlocksConsolidation;
3>	if includeBeamMeasurements is set to true, include the SS/PBCH based measurement results for the quantities in reportQuantityRS-Indexes for each SS/PBCH block index;
2>	else if the beam measurement information to be included is based on CSI-RS:
3>	include within resultsCSI-RS-Indexes the index associated to the best beam for that CSI-RS sorting quantity and, if absThreshCSI-RS-Consolidation is included in the VarMeasConfig for the measObject associated to the cell for which beams are to be reported, the remaining beams whose sorting quantity is above absThreshCSI-RS-Consolidation;
3>	if includeBeamMeasurements is set to true, include the CSI-RS based measurement results for the quantities in reportQuantityRS-Indexes for each CSI-RS index.
5.5.5.3	Sorting of cell measurement results
The UE shall determine the sorting quantity according to parameters of the reportConfig associated with the measId that triggered the reporting:
1>	if the reportType is set to eventTriggered:
2>	for an NR cell, consider the quantity used in the aN-Threshold (for eventA1, eventA2, eventA4, eventA4H1 and eventA4H2) or in the a5-Threshold2 (for eventA5, eventA5H1 and eventA5H2) or in the aN-Offset (for eventA3, eventA3H1, eventA3H2 and eventA6) or in the x1-Threshold2 (for eventX1) as the sorting quantity;
2>	for an E-UTRA cell, consider the quantity used in the bN-ThresholdEUTRA as the sorting quantity;
2>	for an UTRA-FDD cell, consider the quantity used in the bN-ThresholdUTRA-FDD as the sorting quantity;
2>	for a candidate L2 U2N Relay UE, consider the y1-Threshold2-Relay (for eventY1-Relay) or y2-Threshold-Relay (for eventY2-Relay) or z1-Threshold2-Relay (for eventZ1) as the sorting quantity;
1>	if the reportType is set to periodical:
2>	determine the sorting quantity according to reportQuantityCell for an NR cell, and according to reportQuantity for an E-UTRA cell, as below:
3>	if a single quantity is set to true:
4>	consider this quantity as the sorting quantity;
3>	else:
4>	if rsrp is set to true;
5>	consider RSRP as the sorting quantity;
4>	else:
5>	consider RSRQ as the sorting quantity;
2>	determine the sorting quantity according to reportQuantityUTRA-FDD for UTRA-FDD cell, as below:
3>	if a single quantity is set to true:
4>	consider this quantity as the sorting quantity;
3>	else:
4>	consider RSCP as the sorting quantity.
2>	for a candidate L2 U2N Relay UE, consider the reportQuantityRelay as the sorting quantity;
5.5.6	Location measurement indication
5.5.6.1	General

Figure 5.5.6.1-1: Location measurement indication
The purpose of this procedure is to indicate to the network that the UE is going to start/stop location related measurements towards E-UTRA or NR which require measurement gaps or start/stop detection of subframe and slot timing towards E-UTRA (eutra-FineTimingDetection) which requires measurement gaps. UE shall initiate this procedure only after successful AS security activation.
NOTE:	It is a network decision to configure the measurement gap.
5.5.6.2	Initiation
The UE shall:
1>	if and only if upper layers indicate to start performing location measurements towards E-UTRA or NR or start subframe and slot timing detection towards E-UTRA, and the UE requires measurement gaps for these operations while measurement gaps are either not configured or not sufficient:
2>	if preconfigured measurement gaps for positioning and posMG-Request are configured and the UE considers that at least one of the preconfigured measurement gaps for positioning is sufficient for the location measurement when activated:
3>	trigger the lower layers to initiate the measurement gap activation request using UL MAC CE as specified in TS 38.321 [3];
2> else:
3>	initiate the procedure to indicate start as specified in clause 5.5.6.3;
NOTE 1:	The UE verifies the measurement gap situation only upon receiving the indication from upper layers. If at this point in time sufficient gaps are available, the UE does not initiate the procedure. Unless it receives a new indication from upper layers, the UE is only allowed to further repeat the procedure in the same PCell once per frequency of the target RAT if the provided measurement gaps are insufficient.
NOTE 1a:	When indication is received from upper layers for performing location measurement and there is pre-configured measurement gap configured (not preconfigured measurement gap for positioning), the UE considers this preconfigured measurement gap to be not sufficient if the measurement gap is not considered to be always activated according to clause 9.1.7.2 of TS 38.133 [14].
1>	if and only if upper layers indicate to stop performing location measurements towards E-UTRA or NR or stop subframe and slot timing detection towards E-UTRA:
2>	if there is no activated preconfigured measurement gap for positioning:
3>	if there is previously triggered UL MAC CE transmission for the measurement gap activation for positioning:
4>	indicate to the lower layers to cancel the triggered UL MAC CE transmission for the measurement gap activation as specified in TS 38.321 [3];
2>	else if there is activated preconfigured measurement gap for positioning:
3>	trigger the lower layers to deactivate all the activated measurement gap(s) for positioning as specified in TS 38.321 [3].
2>	if there is configured measurement gap used for positioning and the measurement gap is not the activated preconfigured measurement gap for positioning:
3>	initiate the procedure to indicate stop as specified in 5.5.6.3.
NOTE 2:	The UE may initiate the procedure to indicate stop even if it did not previously initiate the procedure to indicate start.
5.5.6.3	Actions related to transmission of LocationMeasurementIndication message
The UE shall set the contents of LocationMeasurementIndication message as follows:
1>	if the procedure is initiated to indicate start of location related measurements:
2>	if the procedure is initiated for RSTD measurements towards E-UTRA:
3>	set the measurementIndication to the eutra-RSTD according to the information received from upper layers;
2>	else if the procedure is initiated for positioning measurement towards NR:
3>	set the measurementIndication to the nr-PRS-Measurement according to the information received from upper layers;
1>	else if the procedure is initiated to indicate stop of location related measurements:
2>	set the measurementIndication to the value release;
1>	if the procedure is initiated to indicate start of subframe and slot timing detection towards E-UTRA:
2>	set the measurementIndication to the value eutra-FineTimingDetection;
1>	else if the procedure is initiated to indicate stop of subframe and slot timing detection towards E-UTRA:
2>	set the measurementIndication to the value release;
1>	submit the LocationMeasurementIndication message to lower layers for transmission, upon which the procedure ends.
5.5a	Logged Measurements
5.5a.1	Logged Measurement Configuration
5.5a.1.1	General


Figure 5.5a.1.1-1: Logged measurement configuration
The purpose of this procedure is to configure the UE to perform logging of measurement results while in RRC_IDLE and RRC_INACTIVE. The procedure applies to logged measurements capable UEs that are in RRC_CONNECTED.
NOTE:	NG-RAN may retrieve stored logged measurement information by means of the UE information procedure.
5.5a.1.2	Initiation
NG-RAN initiates the logged measurement configuration procedure to UE in RRC_CONNECTED by sending the LoggedMeasurementConfiguration message.
5.5a.1.3	Reception of the LoggedMeasurementConfiguration by the UE
Upon receiving the LoggedMeasurementConfiguration message the UE shall:
1>	discard the logged measurement configuration as well as the logged measurement information as specified in 5.5a.2;
1>	store the received loggingDuration, reportType and areaConfiguration, if included, in VarLogMeasConfig;
1>	If the UE is in SNPN access mode:
2>	if the LoggedMeasurementConfiguration message includes snpn-ConfigList:
3>	set the snpn-ConfigID-List in VarLogMeasReport to include the current registered SNPN identity as well as SNPN identities in snpn-Config-List;
2>	else:
3>	set the snpn-ConfigID-List in VarLogMeasReport to include the current registered SNPN identity;
1>	else if the LoggedMeasurementConfiguration message includes plmn-IdentityList:
2>	set plmn-IdentityList in VarLogMeasReport to include the RPLMN as well as the PLMNs included in plmn-IdentityList;
1>	else:
2>	set plmn-IdentityList in VarLogMeasReport to include the RPLMN;
1>	store the received absoluteTimeInfo, traceReference, traceRecordingSessionRef, and tce-Id in VarLogMeasReport;
1>	store the received bt-NameList, if included, in VarLogMeasConfig;
1>	store the received wlan-NameList, if included, in VarLogMeasConfig;
1>	store the received sensor-NameList, if included, in VarLogMeasConfig;
1>	start timer T330 with the timer value set to the loggingDuration;
1>	store the received sigLoggedMeasType, if included, in VarLogMeasReport;
1>	store the received earlyMeasIndication, if included, in VarLogMeasConfig;
5.5a.1.4	T330 expiry
Upon expiry of T330 the UE shall:
1>	release VarLogMeasConfig;
The UE is allowed to discard stored logged measurements, i.e. to release VarLogMeasReport, 48 hours after T330 expiry.
5.5a.2	Release of Logged Measurement Configuration
5.5a.2.1	General
The purpose of this procedure is to release the logged measurement configuration as well as the logged measurement information.
5.5a.2.2	Initiation
The UE shall initiate the procedure upon receiving a logged measurement configuration in same or another RAT. The UE shall also initiate the procedure upon power off or upon deregistration.
The UE shall:
1>	stop timer T330, if running;
1>	if stored, discard the logged measurement configuration as well as the logged measurement information, i.e. release the UE variables VarLogMeasConfig and VarLogMeasReport.
5.5a.3	Measurements logging
5.5a.3.1	General
This procedure specifies the logging of available measurements by a UE in RRC_IDLE and RRC_INACTIVE that has a logged measurement configuration. The actual process of logging within the UE, takes place in RRC_IDLE state could continue in RRC_INACTIVE state or vice versa.
5.5a.3.2	Initiation
While T330 is running and SDT procedure is not ongoing, the UE shall:
1>	if measurement logging is suspended:
2>	if during the last logging interval the IDC problems detected by the UE is resolved, resume measurement logging;
1>	if not suspended, perform the logging in accordance with the following:
2>	if the reportType is set to periodical in the VarLogMeasConfig:
3>	if the UE is in any cell selection state (as specified in TS 38.304 [20]):
4>	perform the logging at regular time intervals, as defined by the loggingInterval in the VarLogMeasConfig;
3>	if the UE is in camped normally state on an NR cell and if the RPLMN is included in plmn-IdentityList stored in VarLogMeasReport; or
3>	if the UE is in camped normally state on an NR cell and if the registered SNPN identity is included in snpn-ConfigID-List stored in VarLogMeasReport:
4>	if areaConfiguration is not included in VarLogMeasConfig; or
4>	if the serving cell is part of the area indicated by areaConfig in areaConfiguration in VarLogMeasConfig; or
4>	if the serving cell is part of the area indicated by cag-ConfigList in areaConfiguration in VarLogMeasConfig; or
4>	if the serving cell is part of the area indicated by snpn-ConfigList in areaConfiguration in VarLogMeasConfig:
5>	perform the logging at regular time intervals, as defined by the loggingInterval in the VarLogMeasConfig;
2>	else if the reportType is set to eventTriggered, and eventType is set to outOfCoverage:
3>	perform the logging at regular time intervals as defined by the loggingInterval in VarLogMeasConfig only when the UE is in any cell selection state;
3>	upon transition from any cell selection state to camped normally state in NR:
4>	if the RPLMN is included in plmn-IdentityList stored in VarLogMeasReport, or if the registered SNPN identity is included in snpn-ConfigID-List stored in VarLogMeasReport; and
4>	if areaConfiguration is not included in VarLogMeasConfig or if the current camping cell is part of the area indicated by areaConfig of areaConfiguration in VarLogMeasConfig, or if the current camping cell is part of the area indicated by cag-ConfigList of areaConfiguration in VarLogMeasConfig, or if the current camping cell is part of the area indicated by snpn-ConfigList of areaConfiguration in VarLogMeasConfig:
5>	perform the logging;
2>	else if the reportType is set to eventTriggered and eventType is set to eventL1:
3>	if the UE is in camped normally state on an NR cell and if the RPLMN is included in plmn-IdentityList stored in VarLogMeasReport; or
3>	if the UE is in camped normally state on an NR cell and if the registered SNPN identity is included in snpn-ConfigID-List stored in VarLogMeasReport:
4>	if areaConfiguration is not included in VarLogMeasConfig; or
4>	if the serving cell is part of the area indicated by areaConfig in areaConfiguration in VarLogMeasConfig; or
4>	if the current serving cell is part of the area indicated by cag-ConfigList of areaConfiguration in VarLogMeasConfig, or if the current camping cell is part of the area indicated by snpn-ConfigList of areaConfiguration in VarLogMeasConfig;
5>	perform the logging at regular time intervals as defined by the loggingInterval in VarLogMeasConfig only when the conditions indicated by the eventL1 are met;
2>	when performing the logging:
3> if InterFreqTargetInfo is configured and if the UE detected IDC problems on at least one of the frequencies included in InterFreqTargetInfo or any inter-RAT frequency during the last logging interval, or
3>	if InterFreqTargetInfo is not configured and if the UE detected IDC problems during the last logging interval:
4>	if measResultServingCell in the VarLogMeasReport is not empty:
5>	include inDeviceCoexDetected;
5>	suspend measurement logging from the next logging interval;
4>	else:
5>	suspend measurement logging;
NOTE 0:	If the UE detected and resolved IDC problem during the last logging interval, the UE does not suspend measurement logging from the next logging interval and does not suspend measurement logging for the last logging interval.
3>	set the relativeTimeStamp to indicate the elapsed time since the moment at which the logged measurement configuration was received;
3>	if location information became available during the last logging interval, set the content of the locationInfo as in 5.3.3.7:
3>	if the UE is in any cell selection state (as specified in TS 38.304 [20]):
4>	set anyCellSelectionDetected to indicate the detection of no suitable or no acceptable cell found;
4>	if the reportType is set to eventTriggered in the VarLogMeasConfig; and
4>	if the RPLMN at the time of entering the any cell selection state is included in plmn-IdentityList stored in VarLogMeasReport or if the registered SNPN identity at the time of entering the any cell selection state is included in snpn-ConfigID-List stored in VarLogMeasReport; and
4>	if areaConfiguration is not included in VarLogMeasConfig or if the last suitable cell that the UE was camping on is part of the area indicated by areaConfig of areaConfiguration in VarLogMeasConfig, or if last suitable cell that the UE was camping on is part of the area indicated by cag-ConfigList of areaConfiguration in VarLogMeasConfig, or if last suitable cell that the UE was camping on is part of the area indicated by snpn-ConfigList of areaConfiguration in VarLogMeasConfig:
5>	set the servCellIdentity to indicate global cell identity of the last suitable cell that the UE was camping on;
5>	set the measResultServingCell to include the quantities of the last suitable cell the UE was camping on;
4>	else if the reportType is set to periodical in the VarLogMeasConfig:
5>	set the servCellIdentity to indicate global cell identity of the last logged cell that the UE was camping on;
5>	set the measResultServingCell to include the quantities of the last logged cell the UE was camping on;
3>	else:
4>	set the servCellIdentity to indicate global cell identity of the cell the UE is camping on;
4>	set the measResultServingCell to include the quantities of the cell the UE is camping on;
3>	if available, set the measResultNeighCells, in order of decreasing ranking-criterion as used for cell re-selection, to include measurements of neighbouring cell that became available during the last logging interval and according to the following:
4>	include measurement results for at most 6 neighbouring cells on the NR serving frequency and for at most 3 cells per NR neighbouring frequency and for the NR neighbouring frequencies in accordance with the following:
5>	if interFreqTargetInfo is included in VarLogMeasConfig:
6>	if earlyMeasIndication is included in VarLogMeasConfig;
7>	include measurement results for NR neighbouring frequencies that are included in both interFreqTargetInfo and either in measIdleCarrierListNR (within the VarMeasIdleConfig) or SIB4;
6>	else:
7>	include measurement results for NR neighbouring frequencies that are included in both interFreqTargetInfo and SIB4;
5>	else:
6>	if earlyMeasIndication is included in VarLogMeasConfig;
7>	include measurement results for NR neighbouring frequencies that are included in either measIdleCarrierListNR (within the VarMeasIdleConfig) or SIB4;
6>	else:
7>	include measurement results for NR neighbouring frequencies that are included in SIB4;
4>	include measurement results for at most 3 neighbours per inter-RAT frequency in accordance with the following:
5>	if earlyMeasIndication is included in VarLogMeasConfig:
6>	include measurement results for inter-RAT neighbouring frequencies that are included in either measIdleCarrierListEUTRA (within the VarMeasIdleConfig) or SIB5;
5>	else:
6>	include measurement results for inter-RAT frequencies that are included in SIB5;
4>	for each neighbour cell included, include the optional fields that are available;
NOTE 1:	The UE includes the latest results of the available measurements as used for cell reselection evaluation in RRC_IDLE or RRC_INACTIVE, which are performed in accordance with the performance requirements as specified in TS 38.133 [14].
NOTE 2:	For logging the measurements on frequencies (indicated in measIdleCarrierListNR/ measIdleCarrierListEUTRA) in the logged measurement, the qualityThreshold in measIdleConfig should not be applied, and how the UE logs the measurements on the frequencies is left to the UE implementation.
2>	when the memory reserved for the logged measurement information becomes full, stop timer T330 and perform the same actions as performed upon expiry of T330, as specified in 5.5a.1.4.
5.5b	Application Layer Measurements in RRC_IDLE/RRC_INACTIVE
5.5b.1	Handling of Application Layer Measurements in RRC_IDLE/RRC_INACTIVE
5.5b.1.1	General
This procedure specifies the UE actions for a UE in RRC_IDLE and RRC_INACTIVE that has an application layer measurement configuration with appLayerIdleInactiveConfig configured. The procedure includes area handling, storing of application layer measurement report containers and cell re-selection to LTE.
5.5b.1.2	Initiation
While in RRC_INACTIVE and RRC_IDLE state, the UE shall:
1>	store any previously or subsequently received application layer measurement report containers associated with the measConfigAppLayerId for which the successful transmission of the message or at least one segment of the message has not been confirmed by lower layers;
NOTE:	The UE continues storing application layer measurement report containers for MBS broadcast service in RRC_CONNECTED as long as stored application layer measurement configurations/reports have not been retrieved.
1>	if the memory reserved for storing application layer measurement report containers becomes full:
2>	if the reports are associated with a configuration including appLayerMeasPriority:
3>	discard reports in priority order where reports with the lowest priority are discarded first, and among reports with equal associated priority, discard reports in the order they were received, where older reports are discarded first;
2>	else:
3>	discard reports in the order they were received, where older reports are discarded first;
1>	if qoe-AreaScope is configured:
2>	if the cell which the UE selects when the UE transits from RRC_CONNECTED state to RRC_INACTIVE or RRC_IDLE state is part of the area indicated by qoe-AreaScope:
3>	inform upper layers of being inside the area;
2>	if the cell which the UE selects when the UE transits from RRC_CONNECTED state to RRC_INACTIVE or RRC_IDLE state is not part of the area indicated by qoe-AreaScope:
3>	inform upper layers of being outside the area.
2>	if the UE re-selects to a new cell which is part of the area indicated by qoe-AreaScope and the previous cell was not part of the area indicated by qoe-AreaScope:
3>	inform upper layers of being inside the area;
2>	if the UE re-selects to a new cell which is not part of the area indicated by qoe-AreaScope and the previous cell was part of the area indicated by qoe-AreaScope:
3>	inform upper layers of being outside the area.
1>	if the UE re-selects to an E-UTRA cell:
2>	inform upper layers about the release of all application layer measurement configurations;
2>	release all application layer measurement configurations including their fields in UE variables VarAppLayerIdleConfig and VarAppLayerPLMN-ListConfig;
2>	discard any application layer measurement reports which were not yet fully submitted to lower layers for transmission;
2>	consider itself not to be configured to send application layer measurement reports.
5.6	UE capabilities
5.6.1	UE capability transfer
5.6.1.1	General
This clause describes how the UE compiles and transfers its UE capability information upon receiving a UECapabilityEnquiry from the network.

Figure 5.6.1.1-1: UE capability transfer
5.6.1.2	Initiation
The network initiates the procedure to a UE in RRC_CONNECTED when it needs (additional) UE radio access capability information. The network should retrieve UE capabilities only after AS security activation. Network does not forward UE capabilities that were retrieved before AS security activation to the CN.
5.6.1.3	Reception of the UECapabilityEnquiry by the UE
The UE shall set the contents of UECapabilityInformation message as follows:
1>	if the ue-CapabilityRAT-RequestList contains a UE-CapabilityRAT-Request with rat-Type set to nr:
2>	include in the ue-CapabilityRAT-ContainerList a UE-CapabilityRAT-Container of the type UE-NR-Capability and with the rat-Type set to nr;
2>	include the supportedBandCombinationList, featureSets and featureSetCombinations as specified in clause 5.6.1.4;
1>	if the ue-CapabilityRAT-RequestList contains a UE-CapabilityRAT-Request with rat-Type set to eutra-nr:
2> if the UE supports (NG)EN-DC or NE-DC:
3>	include in the ue-CapabilityRAT-ContainerList a UE-CapabilityRAT-Container of the type UE-MRDC-Capability and with the rat-Type set to eutra-nr;
3>	include the supportedBandCombinationList and featureSetCombinations as specified in clause 5.6.1.4;
1>	if the ue-CapabilityRAT-RequestList contains a UE-CapabilityRAT-Request with rat-Type set to eutra:
2>	if the UE supports E-UTRA:
3>	include in the ue-CapabilityRAT-ContainerList a ue-CapabilityRAT-Container of the type UE-EUTRA-Capability associated with the terrestrial network and with the rat-Type set to eutra as specified in TS 36.331 [10], clause 5.6.3.3, according to the capabilityRequestFilter, if received;
1>	if the ue-CapabilityRAT-RequestList contains a UE-CapabilityRAT-Request with rat-Type set to utra-fdd:
2>	if the UE supports UTRA-FDD:
3>	include the UE radio access capabilities for UTRA-FDD within a ue-CapabilityRAT-Container and with the rat-Type set to utra-fdd;
1>	if the RRC message segmentation is enabled based on the field rrc-SegAllowed received, and the encoded RRC message is larger than the maximum supported size of a PDCP SDU specified in TS 38.323 [5]:
2>	consider the maximum number of UL segments the UE is allowed to use when segmenting the UECapabilityInformation message is 16;
2>	initiate the UL message segment transfer procedure as specified in clause 5.7.7;
1>	else if the RRC message segmentation is enabled based on the field rrc-MaxCapaSegAllowed received, and the encoded RRC message is larger than the maximum supported size of a PDCP SDU specified in TS 38.323 [5]:
2>	consider the maximum number of UL segments the UE is allowed to use when segmenting the UECapabilityInformation message to be the value indicated by rrc-MaxCapaSegAllowed;
2>	initiate the UL message segment transfer procedure as specified in clause 5.7.7;
1>	else:
2>	submit the UECapabilityInformation message to lower layers for transmission, upon which the procedure ends.
5.6.1.4	Setting band combinations, feature set combinations and feature sets supported by the UE
The UE invokes the procedures in this clause if the NR or E-UTRA network requests UE capabilities for nr, eutra-nr or eutra. This procedure is invoked once per requested rat-Type (see clause 5.6.1.3 for capability enquiry by the NR network; see TS 36.331 [10], clause 5.6.3.3 for capability enquiry by the E-UTRA network). The UE shall ensure that the feature set IDs are consistent across feature sets, feature set combinations and band combinations in all three UE capability containers that the network queries with the same fields with the same values, i.e. UE-CapabilityRequestFilterNR, UE-CapabilityRequestFilterCommon, rrc-SegAllowed and fields in UECapabilityEnquiry message (i.e. requestedFreqBandsNR-MRDC, requestedCapabilityNR, eutra-nr-only flag, requestedCapabilityCommon, and rrc-SegAllowed) as defined in TS 36.331 [10], where applicable.
NOTE 1:	Capability enquiry without frequencyBandListFilter is not supported.
NOTE 2:	In (NG)EN-DC, the gNB needs the capabilities for RAT types nr and eutra-nr and it uses the featureSets in the UE-NR-Capability together with the featureSetCombinations in the UE-MRDC-Capability to determine the NR UE capabilities for the supported MRDC band combinations. Similarly, the eNB needs the capabilities for RAT types eutra and eutra-nr and it uses the featureSetsEUTRA in the UE-EUTRA-Capability together with the featureSetCombinations in the UE-MRDC-Capability to determine the E-UTRA UE capabilities for the supported MRDC band combinations. Hence, the IDs used in the featureSets must match the IDs referred to in featureSetCombinations across all three containers. The requirement on consistency implies that there are no undefined feature sets and feature set combinations.
NOTE 3:	If the UE cannot include all feature sets and feature set combinations due to message size or list size constraints, it is up to UE implementation which feature sets and feature set combinations it prioritizes.
NOTE 3a:	For the usage of rrc-MaxCapaSegAllowed, if the NR or E-UTRA network does not request UE capabilities for nr, eutra-nr and eutra in a single enquiry, the feature set IDs might not be consistent across feature sets, feature set combinations and band combinations in all three UE capability containers.
The UE shall:
1>	if the UE is an eRedCap UE and the UE supports eRedCapIgnoreCapabilityFiltering:
2> ignore the value received in frequencyBandListFilter;
2>	in the remainder of this procedure assume frequencyBandListFilter indicates all the supported bands of the UE;
1>	compile a list of "candidate band combinations" according to the filter criteria in capabilityRequestFilterCommon (if included), only consisting of bands included in frequencyBandListFilter, and prioritized in the order of frequencyBandListFilter (i.e. first include band combinations containing the first-listed band, then include remaining band combinations containing the second-listed band, and so on), where for each band in the band combination, the parameters of the band do not exceed maxBandwidthRequestedDL, maxBandwidthRequestedUL, maxCarriersRequestedDL, maxCarriersRequestedUL, ca-BandwidthClassDL-EUTRA or ca-BandwidthClassUL-EUTRA, whichever are received;
1>	for each band combination included in the list of "candidate band combinations":
2>	if the network (E-UTRA) included the eutra-nr-only field, or
2>	if the requested rat-Type is eutra:
3>	remove the NR-only band combination from the list of "candidate band combinations";
NOTE 4:	The (E-UTRA) network may request capabilities for nr but indicate with the eutra-nr-only flag that the UE shall not include any NR band combinations in the UE-NR-Capability. In this case the procedural text above removes all NR-only band combinations from the candidate list and thereby also avoids inclusion of corresponding feature set combinations and feature sets below.
2>	if it is regarded as a fallback band combination with the same capabilities of another band combination included in the list of "candidate band combinations", and
2>	if this fallback band combination is generated by releasing at least one SCell or uplink configuration of SCell or SUL according to TS 38.306 [26]:
3>	remove the band combination from the list of "candidate band combinations";
NOTE 5:	Even if the network requests (only) capabilities for nr, it may include E-UTRA band numbers in the frequencyBandListFilter to ensure that the UE includes all necessary feature sets needed for subsequently requested eutra-nr capabilities. At this point of the procedure the list of "candidate band combinations" contains all NR- and/or E-UTRA-NR band combinations that match the filter (frequencyBandListFilter) provided by the NW and that match the eutra-nr-only flag (if RAT-Type nr is requested by E-UTRA). In the following, this candidate list is used to derive the band combinations, feature set combinations and feature sets to be reported in the requested capability container.
1>	if the requested rat-Type is nr:
2>	include into supportedBandCombinationList as many NR-only band combinations as possible from the list of "candidate band combinations", starting from the first entry;
3>	if srs-SwitchingTimeRequest is received:
4>	if SRS carrier switching is supported;
5>	include srs-SwitchingTimesListNR and srs-SwitchingAffectedBandsListNR for each band combination;
4>	set srs-SwitchingTimeRequested to true;
2>	include, into featureSetCombinations, the feature set combinations referenced from the supported band combinations as included in supportedBandCombinationList according to the previous;
2>	compile a list of "candidate feature set combinations" referenced from the list of "candidate band combinations" excluding entries (rows in feature set combinations) with same or lower capabilities;
2>	if uplinkTxSwitchRequest is received:
3>	include into supportedBandCombinationList-UplinkTxSwitch as many NR-only band combinations that supported UL TX switching as possible from the list of "candidate band combinations", starting from the first entry;
4>	if srs-SwitchingTimeRequest is received:
5>	if SRS carrier switching is supported;
6>	include srs-SwitchingTimesListNR and srs-SwitchingAffectedBandsListNR for each band combination;
5>	set srs-SwitchingTimeRequested to true;
3>	include, into featureSetCombinations, the feature set combinations referenced from the supported band combinations as included in supportedBandCombinationList-UplinkTxSwitch according to the previous;
NOTE 6:	This list of "candidate feature set combinations" contains the feature set combinations used for NR-only as well as E-UTRA-NR band combinations. It is used to derive a list of NR feature sets referred to from the feature set combinations in the UE-NR-Capability and from the feature set combinations in a UE-MRDC-Capability container.
2>	if sidelinkRequest is received:
3>	for a sidelink band combination the UE included in supportedBandCombinationListSidelinkEUTRA-NR, supportedBandCombinationListSL-RelayDiscovery, supportedBandCombinationListSL-U2U-RelayDiscovery or supportedBandCombinationListSL-NonRelayDiscovery:
4>	if the UE supports partial sensing for a band of the sidelink band combination, include the partial sensing capabilities for the band using the sl-TransmissionMode2-PartialSensing-r17;
3>	set sidelinkRequested to true;
2>	include into featureSets the feature sets referenced from the "candidate feature set combinations" and may exclude the feature sets with the parameters that exceed any of maxBandwidthRequestedDL, maxBandwidthRequestedUL, maxCarriersRequestedDL or maxCarriersRequestedUL, whichever are received;
1>	else, if the requested rat-Type is eutra-nr:
2>	include into supportedBandCombinationList and/or supportedBandCombinationListNEDC-Only as many E-UTRA-NR band combinations as possible from the list of "candidate band combinations", starting from the first entry;
3>	if srs-SwitchingTimeRequest is received:
4>	if SRS carrier switching is supported;
5>	include srs-SwitchingTimesListNR, srs-SwitchingTimesListEUTRA and srs-SwitchingAffectedBandsListNR for each band combination;
4>	set srs-SwitchingTimeRequested to true;
2>	include, into featureSetCombinations, the feature set combinations referenced from the supported band combinations as included in supportedBandCombinationList according to the previous;
2>	if uplinkTxSwitchRequest is received:
3>	include into supportedBandCombinationList-UplinkTxSwitch as many E-UTRA-NR band combinations that supported UL TX switching as possible from the list of "candidate band combinations", starting from the first entry;
4>	if srs-SwitchingTimeRequest is received:
5>	if SRS carrier switching is supported;
6>	include srs-SwitchingTimesListNR, srs-SwitchingTimesListEUTRA and srs-SwitchingAffectedBandsListNR for each band combination;
5>	set srs-SwitchingTimeRequested to true;
3>	include, into featureSetCombinations, the feature set combinations referenced from the supported band combinations as included in supportedBandCombinationList-UplinkTxSwitch according to the previous;
1>	else (if the requested rat-Type is eutra):
2>	compile a list of "candidate feature set combinations" referenced from the list of "candidate band combinations" excluding entries (rows in feature set combinations) with same or lower capabilities;
NOTE 7:	This list of "candidate feature set combinations" contains the feature set combinations used for E-UTRA-NR band combinations. It is used to derive a list of E-UTRA feature sets referred to from the feature set combinations in a UE-MRDC-Capability container.
2>	include into featureSetsEUTRA (in the UE-EUTRA-Capability) the feature sets referenced from the "candidate feature set combinations" and may exclude the feature sets with the parameters that exceed ca-BandwidthClassDL-EUTRA or ca-BandwidthClassUL-EUTRA, whichever are received;
1>	if the UE is an eRedCap UE and the UE supports eRedCapIgnoreCapabilityFiltering, i.e., it assumes frequencyBandListFilter to be the filter containing all the supported bands of the UE:
2>	include all the supported bands of the UE in the field appliedFreqBandListFilter, except if the requested rat-Type is nr and the network included the eutra-nr-only field;
1>	else:
2>	include the received frequencyBandListFilter in the field appliedFreqBandListFilter of the requested UE capability, except if the requested rat-Type is nr and the network included the eutra-nr-only field;
1>	if the network included ue-CapabilityEnquiryExt:
2>	include the received ue-CapabilityEnquiryExt in the field receivedFilters;
5.6.1.5	Void
5.7	Other
5.7.1	DL information transfer
5.7.1.1	General

Figure 5.7.1.1-1: DL information transfer
The purpose of this procedure is to transfer NAS dedicated information from NG-RAN to a UE in RRC_CONNECTED or to a UE in RRC_INACTIVE during SDT, or to transfer F1-C related information from IAB Donor-CU to IAB-DU via the collocated IAB-MT in RRC_CONNECTED.
5.7.1.2	Initiation
The network initiates the DL information transfer procedure whenever there is a need to transfer NAS dedicated information, or F1-C related information to an IAB-node. The network initiates the DL information transfer procedure by sending the DLInformationTransfer message.
5.7.1.3	Reception of the DLInformationTransfer by the UE
Upon receiving DLInformationTransfer message, the UE shall:
1>	if dedicatedNAS-Message is included:
2>	forward dedicatedNAS-Message to upper layers.
1>	if referenceTimeInfo is included:
2>	calculate the reference time based on the time, referenceSFN and timeInfoType if it is included;
2>	calculate the uncertainty of the reference time based on the uncertainty, if uncertainty is included;
2>	inform upper layers of the reference time and, if uncertainty is included, of the uncertainty;
2>	ignore all further referenceTimeInfo received in SIB9, if any.
1>	if sib9Fallback is included:
2>	apply referenceTimeInfo in SIB9.
1>	if rxTxTimeDiff-gNB is included:
2>	calculate the propagation delay based on the UE Rx-Tx time difference measurement and the received Rx-Tx time difference measurement at the gNB;
2>	inform upper layers of the propagation delay.
1>	if ta-PDC is set to activate:
2>	inform upper layers of the propagation delay determined by the accumulated Timing Advance commands.
1>	if clockQualityDetailsLevel is included:
2>	store the eventID-TSS as the storedEventID within VarTSS-Info;
2>	if the UE is NPN capable and the cell is an NPN-only cell:
3>	derive a gNB identity from gNB-ID-Length and cellIdentity of the first NPN-IdentityInfo list entry of NPN-IdentityInfoList in SIB1, and derive the plmn-Identity of the first NPN-Identity list entry of NPN-IdentityList in SIB1 included in the first NPN-IdentityInfo list entry of NPN-IdentityInfoList in SIB1, as defined in TS 38.413 [42];
2>	else:
3>	derive a gNB identity from gNB-ID-Length and cellIdentity of the first PLMN-IdentityInfo list entry of PLMN-IdentityInfoList in SIB1, and derive the plmn-Identity of the first PLMN-IdentityInfo list entry of PLMN-IdentityInfoList in SIB1, as defined in TS 38.413 [42];
2>	store the global gNB identity derived from SIB1 as the storedGlobalGnbID within VarTSS-Info;
2>	forward clockQualityDetailsLevel to upper layers.
Upon receiving DLInformationTransfer message, the IAB-MT shall:
1>	if dedicatedInfoF1c is included:
2>	forward dedicatedInfoF1c to the collocated IAB-DU.
5.7.1a	DL information transfer for MR-DC
5.7.1a.1	General

Figure 5.7.1a.1-1: DL information transfer MR-DC
The purpose of this procedure is to transfer RRC messages from the network to the UE over SRB3 (e.g. an NR RRC reconfiguration message including reconfigurationWithSync, an E-UTRA RRC connection reconfiguration message including mobilityControlInfo, an RRC connection release message, a MobilityFromNRCommand message, or a MobilityFromEUTRACommand message) during fast MCG link recovery.
5.7.1a.2	Initiation
The network initiates this procedure whenever there is a need to transfer an RRC message during fast MCG link recovery.
5.7.1a.3	Actions related to reception of DLInformationTransferMRDC message
Upon receiving the DLInformationTransferMRDC, the UE shall:
1>	if the RRCReconfiguration message is included in dl-DCCH-MessageNR:
2>	perform the RRC reconfiguration procedure according to 5.3.5.3;
1>	else if the RRCRelease message is included in dl-DCCH-MessageNR:
2>	perform the RRC release procedure according to 5.3.8;
1>	else if the MobilityFromNRCommand message is included in the dl-DCCH-MessageNR:
2>	perform the mobility from NR procedure according to 5.4.3.3;
1>	else if the E-UTRA RRCConnectionReconfiguration message is included in dl-DCCH-MessageEUTRA:
2>	perform the RRC connection reconfiguration procedure as specified in TS 36.331 [10], clause 5.3.5.4;
1>	else if the E-UTRA RRCConnectionRelease message is included in dl-DCCH-MessageEUTRA:
2>	perform the RRC connection release as specified in TS 36.331 [10], clause 5.3.8;
1>	else if the MobilityFromEUTRACommand message is included in the dl-DCCH-MessageEUTRA:
2>	perform the mobility from E-UTRA procedure as specified in TS 36.331 [10], clause 5.4.3.3;
5.7.2	UL information transfer
5.7.2.1	General

Figure 5.7.2.1-1: UL information transfer
The purpose of this procedure is to transfer NAS dedicated information from the UE to the network in RRC_CONNECTED or in RRC_INACTIVE during SDT, or to transfer F1-C related information from IAB-DU to IAB Donor-CU via the collocated IAB-MT in RRC_CONNECTED.
5.7.2.2	Initiation
A UE in RRC_CONNECTED or a UE in RRC_INACTIVE during SDT initiates the UL information transfer procedure whenever there is a need to transfer NAS dedicated information. The UE initiates the UL information transfer procedure by sending the ULInformationTransfer message. In addition, an IAB-MT in RRC_CONNECTED initiates the UL information transfer procedure whenever there is a need to transfer F1-C related information. When F1-C related information has to be transferred, the IAB-MT shall initiate the procedure only if SRB2 or split SRB2 is established.

5.7.2.3	Actions related to transmission of ULInformationTransfer message
The UE shall set the contents of the ULInformationTransfer message as follows:
1>	if the upper layer provides NAS PDU:
2>	set the dedicatedNAS-Message to include the information received from upper layers;
1>	for the IAB-MT, if there is a need to transfer F1-C related information:
2>	include the dedicatedInfoF1c;
1>	submit the ULInformationTransfer message to lower layers for transmission, upon which the procedure ends.
5.7.2.4	Failure to deliver ULInformationTransfer message
The UE shall:
1>	if AS security is not started and radio link failure occurs before the successful delivery of ULInformationTransfer messages has been confirmed by lower layers; or
1>	if PDCP re-establishment or release/addition (e.g due to key refresh upon PCell or PSCell change, or RRC connection re-establishment, or failure of resume procedure initiated for SDT) occurs on an SRB on which ULInformationTransfer messages were submitted for transmission but successful delivery of these messages was not confirmed by lower layers:
2>	inform upper layers about the possible failure to deliver the information contained in the concerned ULInformationTransfer messages, unless the messages only include dedicatedInfoF1c.
5.7.2a	UL information transfer for MR-DC
5.7.2a.1	General

Figure 5.7.2a.1-1: UL information transfer MR-DC
The purpose of this procedure is to transfer MR-DC dedicated information from the UE to the network e.g. the NR or E-UTRA RRC MeasurementReport, FailureInformation, UEAssistanceInformation, RRCReconfigurationComplete, MCGFailureInformation, or IABOtherInformation message.
5.7.2a.2	Initiation
A UE in RRC_CONNECTED initiates the UL information transfer for MR-DC procedure whenever there is a need to transfer MR-DC dedicated information. I.e. the procedure is not used during an RRC connection reconfiguration involving NR or E-UTRA connection reconfiguration, in which case the MR DC information is piggybacked to the RRCReconfigurationComplete message, except in the case the UE executes an intra-SN CPC.
5.7.2a.3	Actions related to transmission of ULInformationTransferMRDC message
The UE shall set the contents of the ULInformationTransferMRDC message as follows:
1>	if there is a need to transfer MR-DC dedicated information related to NR:
2>	set the ul-DCCH-MessageNR to include the NR MR-DC dedicated information to be transferred (e.g., NR RRC MeasurementReport, UEAssistanceInformation, FailureInformation, RRCReconfigurationComplete, MCGFailureInformation, or IABOtherInformation message);
1>	else if there is a need to transfer MR-DC dedicated information related to E-UTRA:
2>	set the ul-DCCH-MessageEUTRA to include the E-UTRA MR-DC dedicated information to be transferred (e.g., E-UTRA RRC MeasurementReport, or MCGFailureInformation message);
1>	submit the ULInformationTransferMRDC message to lower layers for transmission, upon which the procedure ends.
5.7.2b	UL transfer of IRAT information
5.7.2b.1	General

Figure 5.7.2b.1-1: UL transfer of IRAT information
The purpose of this procedure is to transfer from the UE to NR MCG dedicated information terminated at the NR MCG but specified by another RAT e.g. the E-UTRA MeasurementReport message, the E-UTRA SidelinkUEInformation message or the E-UTRA UEAssistanceInformation message. The specific information transferred in this message is set in accordance with:
-	the procedure specified in 5.6.10 of TS 36.331 [10] for E-UTRA UEAssistanceInformation message;
-	the procedure specified in 5.10.2 of TS 36.331 [10] for E-UTRA SidelinkUEInformation message;
-	the procedure specified in 5.5.5 of TS 36.331 [10] for E-UTRA MeasurementReport Message.
5.7.2b.2	Initiation
A UE in RRC_CONNECTED initiates the UL information transfer procedure whenever there is a need to transfer dedicated inter-RAT information as specified in TS 36.331 [10].
5.7.2b.3	Actions related to transmission of ULInformationTransferIRAT message
The UE shall set the contents of the ULInformationTransferIRAT message as follows:
1>	if there is a need to transfer dedicated LTE information related to V2X sidelink communications:
2>	set the ul-DCCH-MessageEUTRA to include the V2X sidelink communication information to be transferred (e.g. the E-UTRA RRC MeasurementReport message, the E-UTRA RRC SidelinkUEInformation message, or the E-UTRA RRC UEAssistanceInformation message);
1>	submit the ULInformationTransferIRAT message to lower layers for transmission, upon which the procedure ends;
5.7.3	SCG failure information
5.7.3.1	General

Figure 5.7.3.1-1: SCG failure information
The purpose of this procedure is to inform E-UTRAN or NR MN about an SCG failure the UE has experienced i.e. SCG radio link failure, beam failure of the PSCell while the SCG is deactivated, failure of SCG reconfiguration with sync, SCG configuration failure for RRC message on SRB3, SCG integrity check failure, and consistent uplink LBT failures on PSCell for operation with shared spectrum channel access.
5.7.3.2	Initiation
A UE initiates the procedure to report SCG failures when neither MCG nor SCG transmission is suspended and when one of the following conditions is met:
1>	upon detecting radio link failure for the SCG, in accordance with clause 5.3.10.3;
1>	upon detecting beam failure of the PSCell while the SCG is deactivated, in accordance with TS 38.321[3];
1>	upon reconfiguration with sync failure of the SCG, in accordance with clause 5.3.5.8.3;
1>	upon SCG configuration failure, in accordance with clause 5.3.5.8.2;
1>	upon integrity check failure indication from SCG lower layers concerning SRB3.
Upon initiating the procedure, the UE shall:
1>	if the procedure was not initiated due to beam failure of the PSCell while the SCG is deactivated:
2>	suspend SCG transmission for all SRBs, DRBs and, if any, BH RLC channels;
2>	reset SCG MAC;
1>	stop T304 for the SCG, if running;
1>	stop conditional reconfiguration evaluation for CPC, CPA, or subsequent CPAC, if configured;
1>	stop conditional reconfiguration evaluation for each CHO configuration that includes condExecutionCondPSCell, if configured;
1>	if the UE is in (NG)EN-DC:
2>	initiate transmission of the SCGFailureInformationNR message as specified in TS 36.331 [10], clause 5.6.13a.
1>	else:
2>	initiate transmission of the SCGFailureInformation message in accordance with 5.7.3.5.
5.7.3.3	Failure type determination for (NG)EN-DC
The UE shall set the SCG failure type as follows:
1>	if the UE initiates transmission of the SCGFailureInformationNR message due to T310 expiry:
2>	set the failureType as t310-Expiry;
1>	else if the UE initiates transmission of the SCGFailureInformationNR message due to T312 expiry:
2>	set the failureType as any value and set the failureType-v1610 as t312-Expiry;
1>	else if the UE initiates transmission of the SCGFailureInformationNR message to provide reconfiguration with sync failure information for an SCG:
2>	set the failureType as synchReconfigFailureSCG;
1>	else if the UE initiates transmission of the SCGFailureInformationNR message to provide random access problem indication from SCG MAC:
2>	if the random access procedure was initiated for beam failure recovery:
3>	set the failureType as randomAccessProblem and set the failureType-v1610 as beamFailureRecoveryFailure;
2>	else:
3>	set the failureType as randomAccessProblem;
1>	else if the UE initiates transmission of the SCGFailureInformationNR message to provide indication from SCG RLC that the maximum number of retransmissions has been reached:
2>	set the failureType as rlc-MaxNumRetx;
1>	else if the UE initiates transmission of the SCGFailureInformationNR message due to SRB3 integrity check failure:
2>	set the failureType as srb3-IntegrityFailure;
1>	else if the UE initiates transmission of the SCGFailureInformationNR message due to Reconfiguration failure of NR RRC reconfiguration message:
2>	set the failureType as scg-reconfigFailure;
1>	else if the UE initiates transmission of the SCGFailureInformationNR message due to consistent uplink LBT failures:
2>	set the failureType as any value and set the failureType-v1610 as scg-lbtFailure;
1> else if connected as an IAB-node and the SCGFailureInformationNR is initiated due to the reception of a BH RLF indication on BAP entity from the SCG:
2>	set the failureType as any value and set failureType-v1610 as bh-RLF.
1>	else if the UE initiates transmission of the SCGFailureInformationNR message due to beam failure of the PSCell while the SCG is deactivated:
2>	set the failureType as any value and set failureType-v1610 as beamFailure.
5.7.3.4	Setting the contents of MeasResultSCG-Failure
The UE shall set the contents of the MeasResultSCG-Failure as follows:
1>	for each MeasObjectNR configured on NR SCG for which a measId is configured and measurement results are available:
2>	include an entry in measResultPerMOList;
2>	if there is a measId configured with the MeasObjectNR and a reportConfig which has rsType set to ssb:
3>	set ssbFrequency to the value indicated by ssbFrequency as included in the MeasObjectNR;
2>	if there is a measId configured with the MeasObjectNR and a reportConfig which has rsType set to csi-rs:
3>	set refFreqCSI-RS to the value indicated by refFreqCSI-RS as included in the associated measurement object;
2>	if a serving cell is associated with the MeasObjectNR:
3>	set measResultServingCell to include the available quantities of the concerned cell and in accordance with the performance requirements in TS 38.133 [14];
2>	set the measResultNeighCellList to include the best measured cells, ordered such that the best cell is listed first, and based on measurements collected up to the moment the UE detected the failure, and set its fields as follows;
3>	ordering the cells with sorting as follows:
4>	based on SS/PBCH block if SS/PBCH block measurement results are available and otherwise based on CSI-RS;
4>	using RSRP if RSRP measurement results are available, otherwise using RSRQ if RSRQ measurement results are available, otherwise using SINR;
3>	for each neighbour cell included:
4>	include the optional fields that are available.
3>	if the UE supports SCG failure information for mobility robustness optimization for conditional PSCell change, for each neighbour cell, if any, included in measResultSCG-Failure:
4>	if the neighbour cell is one of the candidate cells for which the reconfigurationWithSync is included in the secondaryCellGroup in the MCG VarConditionalReconfig (for inter-SN CPC in NR-DC) or SCG VarConditionalReconfig (for intra-SN CPC) at the moment of the detected SCG failure (radio link failure at PSCell or PSCell change failure):
5>	if the first entry of condExecutionCond or condExecutionCondSCG associated to the neighbour cell corresponds to a fulfilled execution condition at the moment of SCG failure; or
5>	if the second entry of condExecutionCond or condExecutionCondSCG associated to the neighbour cell, if available, corresponds to a fulfilled execution condition at the moment of SCG failure:
6>	set firstTriggeredEvent to the execution condition condFirstEvent corresponding to the first entry of condExecutionCond or condExecutionCondSCG associated to the neighbour cell or to the execution condition condSecondEvent corresponding to the second entry of condExecutionCond or condExecutionCondSCG associated to the neighbour cell, whichever execution condition was fulfilled first in time;
6>	set timeBetweenEvents to the elapsed time between the point in time of fulfilling the condition in condExecutionCond or condExecutionCondSCG associated to the neighbour cell that was fulfilled first in time, and the point in time of fulfilling the condition in condExecutionCond or condExecutionCondSCG associated to the neighbour cell that was fulfilled second in time, if both the first execution condition corresponding to the first entry and the second execution condition corresponding to the second entry in the condExecutionCond or condExecutionCondSCG associated to the neighbour cell were fulfilled;
NOTE:	The measured quantities are filtered by the L3 filter as configured in the mobility measurement configuration. The measurements are based on the time domain measurement resource restriction, if configured. Exclude-listed cells are not required to be reported.
1>	if available, set the locationInfo as in 5.3.3.7 according to the otherConfig associated with the NR SCG.
5.7.3.5	Actions related to transmission of SCGFailureInformation message
The UE shall set the contents of the SCGFailureInformation message as follows:
1>	if the UE initiates transmission of the SCGFailureInformation message due to T310 expiry:
2>	set the failureType as t310-Expiry;
1>	else if the UE initiates transmission of the SCGFailureInformation message due to T312 expiry:
2>	set the failureType as other and set the failureType-v1610 as t312-Expiry;
1>	else if the UE initiates transmission of the SCGFailureInformation message to provide reconfiguration with sync failure information for an SCG:
2>	set the failureType as synchReconfigFailureSCG;
1>	else if the UE initiates transmission of the SCGFailureInformation message to provide random access problem indication from SCG MAC:
2>	if the random access procedure was initiated for beam failure recovery:
3>	set the failureType as other and set the failureType-v1610 as beamFailureRecoveryFailure;
2>	else:
3>	set the failureType as randomAccessProblem;
1>	else if the UE initiates transmission of the SCGFailureInformation message to provide indication from SCG RLC that the maximum number of retransmissions has been reached:
2>	set the failureType as rlc-MaxNumRetx;
1>	else if the UE initiates transmission of the SCGFailureInformation message due to SRB3 IP check failure:
2>	set the failureType as srb3-IntegrityFailure;
1>	else if the UE initiates transmission of the SCGFailureInformation message due to Reconfiguration failure of NR RRC reconfiguration message:
2>	set the failureType as scg-reconfigFailure;
1>	else if the UE initiates transmission of the SCGFailureInformation message due to consistent uplink LBT failures:
2>	set the failureType as other and set the failureType-v1610 as scg-lbtFailure;
1>	else if connected as an IAB-node and the SCGFailureInformation is initiated due to the reception of a BH RLF indication on BAP entity from the SCG:
2>	set the failureType as other and set failureType-v1610 as bh-RLF;
1>	else if the UE initiates transmission of the SCGFailureInformation message due to beam failure of the PSCell while the SCG is deactivated:
2>	set the failureType as other and set failureType-v1610 as beamFailure;
1> include and set MeasResultSCG-Failure in accordance with 5.7.3.4;
1>	for each MeasObjectNR configured by a MeasConfig associated with the MCG, and for which measurement results are available:
2>	include an entry in measResultFreqList;
2>	if there is a measId configured with the MeasObjectNR and a reportConfig which has rsType set to ssb:
3>	set ssbFrequency in measResultFreqList to the value indicated by ssbFrequency as included in the MeasObjectNR;
2>	if there is a measId configured with the MeasObjectNR and a reportConfig which has rsType set to csi-rs:
3>	set refFreqCSI-RS in measResultFreqList to the value indicated by refFreqCSI-RS as included in the associated measurement object;
2>	if a serving cell is associated with the MeasObjectNR:
3>	set measResultServingCell in measResultFreqList to include the available quantities of the concerned cell and in accordance with the performance requirements in TS 38.133 [14];
2>	set the measResultNeighCellList in measResultFreqList to include the best measured cells, ordered such that the best cell is listed first, and based on measurements collected up to the moment the UE detected the failure, and set its fields as follows;
3>	ordering the cells with sorting as follows:
4>	based on SS/PBCH block if SS/PBCH block measurement results are available and otherwise based on CSI-RS;
4>	using RSRP if RSRP measurement results are available, otherwise using RSRQ if RSRQ measurement results are available, otherwise using SINR;
3>	if the UE supports SCG failure information for mobility robustness optimization for conditional PSCell change or addition, for each neighbour cell, if any, included in measResultListNR in measResultFreqList:
4>	if the neighbour cell is one of the candidate cells for which the reconfigurationWithSync is included in the secondaryCellGroup in the MCG VarConditionalReconfig (for CPA or inter-SN CPC in NR-DC) or SCG VarConditionalReconfig (for intra-SN CPC) at the moment of the detected SCG failure (radio link failure at PSCell or PSCell change or addition failure):
5>	if the first entry of condExecutionCond or condExecutionCondSCG associated to the neighbour cell corresponds to a fulfilled execution condition at the moment of SCG failure; or
5>	if the second entry of condExecutionCond or condExecutionCondSCG associated to the neighbour cell, if available, corresponds to a fulfilled execution condition at the moment of SCG failure:
6>	set firstTriggeredEvent to the execution condition condFirstEvent corresponding to the first entry of condExecutionCond or condExecutionCondSCG associated to the neighbour cell or to the execution condition condSecondEvent corresponding to the second entry of condExecutionCond or condExecutionCondSCG associated to the neighbour cell, whichever execution condition was fulfilled first in time;
6>	set timeBetweenEvents to the elapsed time between the point in time of fulfilling the condition in condExecutionCond or condExecutionCondSCG associated to the neighbour cell that was fulfilled first in time, and the point in time of fulfilling the condition in condExecutionCond or condExecutionCondSCG associated to the neighbour cell that was fulfilled second in time, if both the first execution condition corresponding to the first entry and the second execution condition corresponding to the second entry in the condExecutionCond or condExecutionCondSCG associated to the neighbour cell were fulfilled;
3>	for each neighbour cell included:
4>	include the optional fields that are available.
NOTE 1:	The measured quantities are filtered by the L3 filter as configured in the mobility measurement configuration. The measurements are based on the time domain measurement resource restriction, if configured. Exclude-listed cells are not required to be reported.
NOTE 2:	Field measResultSCG-Failure is used to report available results for NR frequencies the UE is configured to measure by SCG RRC signalling.
1>	if available, set the locationInfo as in 5.3.3.7 according to the otherConfig associated with the NR MCG.
1>	if the UE supports SCG failure for mobility robustness optimization:
2>	if the failureType is set to synchReconfigFailureSCG; or
2>	if the failureType is set to randomAccessProblem and the SCG failure was declared while T304 was running:
3>	set perRAInfoList to indicate the performed random access procedure related information as specified in 5.7.10.5.
3>	set the failedPSCellId to the physical cell identity and carrier frequency of the target PSCell of the failed PSCell change or failed PSCell addition;
3>	set the previousPSCellId to the physical cell identity and carrier frequency of the source PSCell associated to the last received RRCReconfiguration message including reconfigurationWithSync for the SCG, if available;
3>	set the timeSCGFailure to the elapsed time since the last execution of RRCReconfiguration message including the reconfigurationWithSync for the SCG until declaring the SCG failure;
2>	else:
3>	set the failedPSCellId to the physical cell identity and carrier frequency of the PSCell in which the SCG failure was declared;
3>	if the last RRCReconfiguration message including the reconfigurationWithSync for the SCG was received to enter the PSCell in which the SCG failure was declared:
4>	set the timeSCGFailure to the elapsed time since the last execution of RRCReconfiguration message including the reconfigurationWithSync for the SCG until declaring the SCG failure;
4>	set the previousPSCellId to the physical cell identity and carrier frequency of the source PSCell associated to the last received RRCReconfiguration message including reconfigurationWithSync for the SCG;
1>	release successPSCell-Config configured by the source PSCell, if available.
The UE shall submit the SCGFailureInformation message to lower layers for transmission.
5.7.3a	EUTRA SCG failure information
5.7.3a.1	General

Figure 5.7.3a.1-1: EUTRA SCG failure information
The purpose of this procedure is to inform NR MN about an SCG failure on E-UTRA SN the UE has experienced (e.g. SCG radio link failure, SCG change failure), as specified in TS 36.331 [10] clause 5.6.13.2.
5.7.3a.2	Initiation
A UE initiates the procedure to report EUTRA SCG failures when neither NR MCG nor EUTRA SCG transmission is suspended and in accordance with TS 36.331 [10] clause 5.6.13.2. Actions the UE shall perform upon initiating the procedure, other than related to the transmission of the SCGFailureInformationEUTRA message are specified in TS 36.331 [10] clause 5.6.13.2.
5.7.3a.3	Actions related to transmission of SCGFailureInformationEUTRA message
The UE shall set the contents of the SCGFailureInformationEUTRA message as follows:
1>	include failureType within failureReportSCG-EUTRA and set it to indicate the SCG failure in accordance with TS 36.331 [10] clause 5.6.13.4;
1>	include and set measResultSCG-FailureMRDC in accordance with TS 36.331 [10] clause 5.6.13.5;
1>	for each EUTRA frequency the UE is configured to measure by measConfig for which measurement results are available:
2>	set the measResultFreqListMRDC to include the best measured cells, ordered such that the best cell is listed first using RSRP to order if RSRP measurement results are available for cells on this frequency, otherwise using RSRQ to order if RSRQ measurement results are available for cells on this frequency, otherwise using SINR to order, and based on measurements collected up to the moment the UE detected the failure, and for each cell that is included, include the optional fields that are available;
NOTE:	Field measResultSCG-FailureMRDC is used to report available results for E-UTRAN frequencies the UE is configured to measure by E-UTRA RRC signalling.
1>	if available, set the locationInfo as in 5.3.3.7.:
The UE shall submit the SCGFailureInformationEUTRA message to lower layers for transmission.
5.7.3b	MCG failure information
5.7.3b.1	General

Figure 5.7.3b.1-1: MCG failure information
The purpose of this procedure is to inform the network about an MCG failure the UE has experienced i.e. MCG radio link failure. A UE in RRC_CONNECTED, for which AS security has been activated with SRB2 and at least one DRB or multicast MRB setup or, for IAB, SRB2, may initiate the fast MCG link recovery procedure in order to continue the RRC connection without re-establishment.
5.7.3b.2	Initiation
In case of MR-DC, a UE configured with split SRB1 or SRB3 initiates the procedure to report MCG failures when neither MCG nor SCG transmission is suspended, the SCG is not deactivated, t316 is configured, and when the following condition is met; or
In case of MP, a MP remote UE configured with split SRB1 initiates the procedure to report direct path failures when neither MCG (i.e. direct path) nor indirect path transmission is suspended, t316 is configured, and when the following condition is met:
1>	upon detecting radio link failure of the MCG, in accordance with 5.3.10.3, while T316 is not running.
Upon initiating the procedure, the UE shall:
1>	stop timer T310 for the PCell, if running;
1>	stop timer T312 for the PCell, if running;
1>	suspend MCG transmission for all SRBs, DRBs, multicast MRBs, except SRB0, and, if any, BH RLC channels;
1>	reset MCG MAC;
1>	stop conditional reconfiguration evaluation for CHO or CHO with candidate SCG(s), if configured;
1>	stop conditional reconfiguration evaluation for CPC or subsequent CPAC, if configured;
1>	initiate transmission of the MCGFailureInformation message in accordance with 5.7.3b.4.
NOTE:	The handling of any outstanding UL RRC messages during the initiation of the fast MCG link recovery is left to UE implementation.
5.7.3b.3	Failure type determination
The UE shall set the MCG failure type as follows:
1>	if the UE initiates transmission of the MCGFailureInformation message due to T310 expiry:
2>	set the failureType as t310-Expiry;
1>	else if the UE initiates transmission of the MCGFailureInformation message due to T312 expiry:
2>	set the failureType as t312-Expiry;
1>	else if the UE initiates transmission of the MCGFailureInformation message to provide random access problem indication from MCG MAC:
2>	if the random access procedure was initiated for beam failure recovery:
3>	set the failureType as beamFailureRecoveryFailure;
2>	else:
3>	set the failureType as randomAccessProblem;
1>	else if the UE initiates transmission of the MCGFailureInformation message to provide indication from MCG RLC that the maximum number of retransmissions has been reached:
2>	set the failureType as rlc-MaxNumRetx:
1>	else if the UE initiates transmission of the MCGFailureInformation message due to consistent uplink LBT failures on the MCG:
2>	set the failureType as lbt-Failure;
1>	else if connected as an IAB-node and the MCGFailureInformation message is initiated due to the reception of a BH RLF indication on BAP entity from the MCG:
2>	set the failureType as bh-RLF.
5.7.3b.4	Actions related to transmission of MCGFailureInformation message
The UE shall set the contents of the MCGFailureInformation message as follows:
1>	include and set failureType in accordance with 5.7.3b.3;
1>	for each MeasObjectNR configured by a measConfig associated with the MCG, and for which measurement results are available:
2>	include an entry in measResultFreqList;
2>	if there is a measId configured with the MeasObjectNR and a reportConfig which has rsType set to ssb:
3>	set ssbFrequency in measResultFreqList to the value indicated by ssbFrequency as included in the MeasObjectNR;
2>	if there is a measId configured with the MeasObjectNR and a reportConfig which has rsType set to csi-rs:
3>	set refFreqCSI-RS in measResultFreqList to the value indicated by refFreqCSI-RS as included in the associated measurement object;
2>	if a serving cell is associated with the MeasObjectNR:
3>	set measResultServingCell in measResultFreqList to include the available quantities of the concerned cell and in accordance with the performance requirements in TS 38.133 [14];
2>	set the measResultNeighCellList in measResultFreqList to include the best measured cells, ordered such that the best cell is listed first, and based on measurements collected up to the moment the UE detected the failure, and set its fields as follows;
3>	ordering the cells with sorting as follows:
4>	based on SS/PBCH block if SS/PBCH block measurement results are available and otherwise based on CSI-RS;
4>	using RSRP if RSRP measurement results are available, otherwise using RSRQ if RSRQ measurement results are available, otherwise using SINR;
3>	for each neighbour cell included:
4>	include the optional fields that are available.
1>	for each EUTRA frequency the UE is configured to measure by measConfig for which measurement results are available:
2>	set the measResultFreqListEUTRA to include the best measured cells, ordered such that the best cell is listed first using RSRP to order the cells if RSRP measurement results are available for cells on this frequency, otherwise using RSRQ to order the cells if RSRQ measurement results are available for cells on this frequency, otherwise using SINR to order the cells, based on measurements collected up to the moment the UE detected the failure, and for each cell that is included, include the optional fields that are available;
1>	for each UTRA-FDD frequency the UE is configured to measure by measConfig for which measurement results are available:
2>	set the measResultFreqListUTRA-FDD to include the best measured cells, ordered such that the best cell is listed first using RSCP to order the cells if RSCP measurement results are available for cells on this frequency, otherwise using EcN0 to order the cells, based on measurements collected up to the moment the UE detected the failure, and for each cell that is included, include the optional fields that are available;

1>	if the UE is in NR-DC:
2>	include and set measResultSCG in accordance with 5.7.3.4;
1>	if the UE is in NE-DC:
2>	include and set measResultSCG-EUTRA in accordance with TS 36.331 [10] clause 5.6.13.5;
NOTE 1:	The measured quantities are filtered by the L3 filter as configured in the mobility measurement configuration. The measurements are based on the time domain measurement resource restriction, if configured. Exclude-listed cells are not required to be reported.
NOTE 2:	Field measResultSCG-Failure is used to report available results for NR frequencies the UE is configured to measure by SCG RRC signalling.
NOTE 3:	Field measResultSCG-EUTRA is used to report available results for E-UTRAN frequencies the UE is configured to measure by E-UTRA RRC signalling.
1>	if SRB1 is configured as split SRB and pdcp-Duplication is not configured:
2>	if the primaryPath for the PDCP entity of SRB1 refers to the direct path when MP is configured:
3>	set the primaryPath to refer to the indirect path;
2>	else if the primaryPath for the PDCP entity of SRB1 refers to the MCG:
3>	set the primaryPath to refer to the SCG.
The UE shall:
1>	start timer T316;
1>	if SRB1 is configured as split SRB:
2>	submit the MCGFailureInformation message to lower layers for transmission via SRB1, upon which the procedure ends;
1>	else (i.e. SRB3 configured):
2>	submit the MCGFailureInformation message to lower layers for transmission embedded in NR RRC message ULInformationTransferMRDC via SRB3 as specified in 5.7.2a.3.
5.7.3b.5	T316 expiry
The UE shall:
1>	if T316 expires:
2>	if the UE supports RLF-Report for fast MCG recovery procedure:
3>	set the pSCellId in the VarRLF-Report to the global cell identity of the PSCell, if available, otherwise to the physical cell identity and carrier frequency of the PSCell;
3>	set the mcg-RecoveryFailureCause in VarRLF-Report to t316-Expiry;
2>	initiate the connection re-establishment procedure as specified in 5.3.7.
5.7.3c	Indirect path failure information
5.7.3c.1	General

Figure 5.7.3c.1-1: Indirect path failure information
The purpose of this procedure is to inform the network about an indirect path failure the MP remote UE has experienced.
5.7.3c.2	Initiation
In case of MP, a MP remote UE initiates the procedure to report indirect path failures when neither MCG transmission nor indirect path transmission is suspended and when one of the following conditions is met:
1>	upon detecting a SL indirect path failure resulting from sidelink radio link failure on the PC5 unicast link or reception of NotificationMessageSidelink from the L2 U2N Relay UE (except indicating relayUE-HO), or SL indirect path addition/change failure in accordance with 5.3.5.17.2.3, or PC5-RRC connection release requested by upper layers in accordance with clause 5.8.9.5; or
1>	upon detecting a N3C indirect path failure, including N3C connection failure or Uu failure of the N3C relay UE with N3C indirect path, or N3C indirect path addition/change failure in accordance with 5.3.5.17.3.2a;
Upon initiating the procedure, the UE shall:
1>	if the procedure was initiated to report SL indirect path failure:
2>	reset the sidelink specific MAC of the L2 U2N relay UE;
2>	stop T421 if running;
1>	suspend indirect path transmission for all SRBs and DRBs;
1>	initiate transmission of the IndirectPathFailureInformation message in accordance with 5.7.3c.4;
5.7.3c.3	Failure type determination
The L2 U2N Remote UE configured with SL indirect path shall set the indirect path failure type as follows:
1>	if the UE initiates transmission of the IndirectPathFailureInformation message due to T421 expiry in accordance with clause 5.3.5.16.1.3:
2>	set the failureTypeIndirectPath as t421-Expiry;
1>	else if the UE initiates transmission of the IndirectPathFailureInformation message due to reception of the NotificationMessageSidelink including indicationType, in accordance with clause 5.8.9.10.4:
2>	set the failureTypeIndirectPath as the value in indicationType received from NotificationMessageSidelink (except relayUE-CellReselection);
1>	else if the UE initiates transmission of the IndirectPathFailureInformation message due to sidelink radio link failure in accordance with clause 5.8.9.3:
2>	set the failureTypeIndirectPath as sl-Failure;
1>	else if the UE initiates transmission of the IndirectPathFailureInformation message due to PC5-RRC connection release requested by upper layers in accordance with clause 5.8.9.5:
2>	set the failureTypeIndirectPath as sl-PC5-Release;
1>	else if the UE initiates transmission of the IndirectPathFailureInformation message due to that the (target) L2 U2N Relay UE (i.e., the UE indicated by sl-IndirectPathRelayUE-Identity in the received sl-IndirectPathAddChange) changes its serving cell to a different cell from the target cell (i.e. the cell indicated by sl-IndirectPathCellIdentity in the received sl-IndirectPathAddChange) during path addition or change:
2>	set the failureTypeIndirectPath as indirectPathAddChangeFailure;
The N3C remote UE shall set the indirect path failure type as follows:
1>	if the UE initiates transmission of the IndirectPathFailureInformation message due to N3C connection failure:
2>	set the failureTypeIndirectPath as n3c-Failure;
1>	else if the UE initiates transmission of the IndirectPathFailureInformation message due to Uu radio link failure on N3C indirect path in accordance with clause 5.3.10.3:
2>	set the failureTypeIndirectPath as relayUE-Uu-RLF;
1>	if the UE initiates transmission of the IndirectPathFailureInformation message due to N3C Indirect path addition/change failure in accordance with clause 5.3.5.17.3.2a:
2>	set the failureTypeIndirectPath as indirectPathAddChangeFailure.
NOTE:	It is out of 3GPP scope how the remote UE detects N3C connection failure, or how the relay UE indicates Uu RLF to the remote UE on the N3C connection.
5.7.3c.4	Actions related to transmission of IndirectPathFailureInformation message
The UE shall set the contents of the IndirectPathFailureInformation message as follows:
1>	set the failureTypeIndirectPath in accordance with 5.7.3c.3;
1>	if the procedure was initiated to report SL indirect path failure:
2>	set the sl-MeasResultServingRelay to include the measurement result for serving L2 U2N Relay UE if available;
2>	for each measObjectRelay included in MeasConfig, and for which measurement results are available:
3>	include an entry in sl-MeasResultsCandRelay;
1>	else if the procedure was initiated to report N3C indirect path failure;
2>	include n3c-relayUE-InfoList to report relay UE information with non-3GPP connection(s) if available;
1>	submit the IndirectPathFailureInformation message to lower layers for transmission.
5.7.4	UE Assistance Information
5.7.4.1	General

Figure 5.7.4.1-1: UE Assistance Information
The purpose of this procedure is for the UE to inform the network of:
-	its delay budget report carrying desired increment/decrement in the connected mode DRX cycle length; or
-	its overheating assistance information; or
-	its IDC assistance information; or
-	its preference on DRX parameters for power saving; or
-	its preference on the maximum aggregated bandwidth for power saving; or
-	its preference on the maximum number of secondary component carriers for power saving; or
-	its preference on the maximum number of MIMO layers for power saving; or
-	its preference on the minimum scheduling offset for cross-slot scheduling for power saving; or
-	its preference on the RRC state; or
-	configured grant assistance information for NR sidelink communication; or
-	its preference in being provisioned with reference time information; or
-	its preference for FR2 UL gap; or
-	its preference to transition out of RRC_CONNECTED state for MUSIM operation; or
-	its preference on the MUSIM gaps; or
-	its preference on the MUSIM gap priority; or
-	its preference on keeping the colliding MUSIM gaps; or
-	its preference on the MUSIM temporary capability restriction; or
-	its relaxation state for RLM measurements; or
-	its relaxation state for BFD measurements; or
-	availability of data and/or signalling mapped to radio bearers which are not configured for SDT; or
-	its preference for the SCG to be deactivated; or
-	availability of uplink data to transmit for a DRB for which there is no MCG RLC bearer while the SCG is deactivated; or
-	change of its fulfilment status for RRM measurement relaxation criterion; or
-	service link (specified in TS 38.300 [2]) propagation delay difference between serving cell and neighbour cell(s); or
-	its preference on multi-Rx operation for FR2; or
-	availability of flight path information for Aerial UE operation; or
-	UL traffic information; or
-	the information of the relay UE(s) with which it connects via a non-3GPP connection for MP; or
-	configured grant assistance information for NR sidelink positioning.
5.7.4.2	Initiation
A UE capable of providing delay budget report in RRC_CONNECTED may initiate the procedure in several cases, including upon being configured to provide delay budget report and upon change of delay budget preference.
A UE capable of providing overheating assistance information in RRC_CONNECTED may initiate the procedure if it was configured to do so, upon detecting internal overheating, or upon detecting that it is no longer experiencing an overheating condition.
A UE capable of providing IDC assistance information in RRC_CONNECTED may initiate the procedure if it was configured to do so, upon detecting IDC problem if the UE did not transmit an IDC assistance information since it was configured to provide IDC indications, or upon change of IDC problem information.
A UE capable of providing its preference on DRX parameters of a cell group for power saving in RRC_CONNECTED may initiate the procedure in several cases, if it was configured to do so, including upon having a preference on DRX parameters and upon change of its preference on DRX parameters.
A UE capable of providing its preference on the maximum aggregated bandwidth of a cell group for power saving in RRC_CONNECTED may initiate the procedure in several cases, if it was configured to do so, including upon having a maximum aggregated bandwidth preference and upon change of its maximum aggregated bandwidth preference.
A UE capable of providing its preference on the maximum number of secondary component carriers of a cell group for power saving in RRC_CONNECTED may initiate the procedure in several cases, if it was configured to do so, including upon having a maximum number of secondary component carriers preference and upon change of its maximum number of secondary component carriers preference.
A UE capable of providing its preference on the maximum number of MIMO layers of a cell group for power saving in RRC_CONNECTED may initiate the procedure in several cases, if it was configured to do so, including upon having a maximum number of MIMO layers preference and upon change of its maximum number of MIMO layers preference.
A UE capable of providing its preference on the minimum scheduling offset for cross-slot scheduling of a cell group for power saving in RRC_CONNECTED may initiate the procedure in several cases, if it was configured to do so, including upon having a minimum scheduling offset preference and upon change of its minimum scheduling offset preference.
A UE capable of providing assistance information to transition out of RRC_CONNECTED state may initiate the procedure if it was configured to do so, upon determining that it prefers to transition out of RRC_CONNECTED state, or upon change of its preferred RRC state.
A UE capable of providing configured grant assistance information for NR sidelink communication in RRC_CONNECTED may initiate the procedure in several cases, including upon being configured to provide traffic pattern information and upon change of traffic patterns.
A UE capable of providing an indication of its preference in being provisioned with reference time information may initiate the procedure upon being configured to provide this indication, or if it was configured to provide this indication and upon change of its preference.
A UE capable of providing an indication of its preference in FR2 UL gap may initiate the procedure if it was configured to do so, upon detecting the need of FR2 UL gap activation/deactivation.
A UE capable of providing MUSIM assistance information for gap preference may initiate the procedure if it was configured to do so, upon determining it needs the gaps, or upon change of the gap preference information.
A UE capable of providing MUSIM assistance information for gap priority preference and/or preference to keep the colliding MUSIM gaps may initiate the procedure if it was configured to do so, upon determining it has gap priority preference information and/or it has preference to keep the colliding MUSIM gaps.
A UE capable of providing MUSIM assistance information for leave indication may initiate the procedure if it was configured to do so upon determining that it needs to leave RRC_CONNECTED state.
A UE capable of providing MUSIM assistance information for temporary capability restriction may initiate the procedure if it was configured to do so, upon determining it has temporary capability restriction or upon determining the removal of the capability restriction.
A UE capable of relaxing its RLM measurements of a cell group in RRC_CONNECTED state shall initiate the procedure for providing an indication of its relaxation state for RLM measurements upon being configured to do so, and upon change of its relaxation state for RLM measurements in RRC_CONNECTED state.
A UE capable of relaxing its BFD measurements in serving cells of a cell group in RRC_CONNECTED shall initiate the procedure for providing an indication of its relaxation state for BFD measurements upon being configured to do so, and upon change of its relaxation state for BFD measurements in RRC_CONNECTED state.
A UE capable of SDT initiates this procedure when data and/or signalling mapped to radio bearers that are not configured for SDT becomes available during SDT (i.e. while SDT procedure is ongoing).
A UE capable of providing its preference for SCG deactivation may initiate the procedure if it was configured to do so, upon determining that it prefers or does no more prefer the SCG to be deactivated.
A UE that has uplink data to transmit for a DRB for which there is no MCG RLC bearer while the SCG is deactivated shall initiate the procedure.
A UE capable of providing an indication of fulfilment of the RRM measurement relaxation criterion in connected mode may initiate the procedure if it was configured to do so, upon change of its fulfilment status for RRM measurement relaxation criterion for connected mode.
A UE capable of providing service link propagation delay difference between serving cell and neighbour cell(s) shall initiate the procedure upon being configured to do so, and upon determining that service link propagation delay difference between serving cell and a neighbour cell has changed more than threshPropDelayDiff compared with the last reported value.
A UE capable of providing an indication of its preference on multi-Rx operation for FR2 may initiate the procedure if it was configured to do so, upon detecting having a preference on multi-Rx operation for FR2 and upon change of its preference on multi-Rx operation for FR2.
A UE capable of indicating the availability of flight path information may initiate the procedure, if it was configured to do so, upon determining that an initial or updated flight path information is available.
A UE capable of providing UL traffic information shall initiate the procedure when this information is available upon being configured to do so, and upon change of UL traffic information.
A UE capable of N3C remote UE operation initiates the procedure upon being configured to report relay UE information on the available non-3GPP connection(s), and upon change of its available non-3GPP connection(s).
A UE capable of providing configured grant assistance information including SL-PRS transmission periodicity, priority, bandwidth and delay budget for NR sidelink positioning in RRC_CONNECTED may initiate the procedure.
Upon initiating the procedure, the UE shall:
1>	if configured to provide delay budget report:
2>	if the UE did not transmit a UEAssistanceInformation message with delayBudgetReport since it was configured to provide delay budget report; or
2>	if the current delay budget is different from the one indicated in the last transmission of the UEAssistanceInformation message including delayBudgetReport and timer T342 is not running:
3>	start or restart timer T342 with the timer value set to the delayBudgetReportingProhibitTimer;
3>	initiate transmission of the UEAssistanceInformation message in accordance with 5.7.4.3 to provide a delay budget report;
1>	if configured to provide overheating assistance information:
2>	if the overheating condition has been detected and T345 is not running; or
2>	if the current overheating assistance information is different from the one indicated in the last transmission of the UEAssistanceInformation message including overheatingAssistance and timer T345 is not running:
3>	start timer T345 with the timer value set to the overheatingIndicationProhibitTimer;
3>	initiate transmission of the UEAssistanceInformation message in accordance with 5.7.4.3 to provide overheating assistance information;
1>	if configured to provide IDC assistance information based on candidateServingFreqListNR included in idc-AssistanceConfig of a cell group:
2>	if the UE did not transmit a UEAssistanceInformation message with idc-Assistance since it was configured to provide IDC assistance information:
3>	if on one or more frequencies included in candidateServingFreqListNR, the UE is experiencing IDC problems that it cannot solve by itself; or
3>	if on one or more supported UL CA or NR-DC combination comprising of carrier frequencies included in candidateServingFreqListNR, the UE is experiencing IDC problems that it cannot solve by itself:
4>	initiate transmission of the UEAssistanceInformation message in accordance with 5.7.4.3 to provide FDM IDC assistance information including a list of affected frequencies and/or frequency combinations;
2>	else if the current idc-Assistance information for the cell group is different from the one indicated in the last transmission of the UEAssistanceInformation message:
3>	initiate transmission of the UEAssistanceInformation message in accordance with 5.7.4.3 to provide IDC FDM assistance information including a list of affected frequencies and/or frequency combinations;
1>	if configured to provide IDC assistance information based on idc-FDM-AssistanceConfig included in idc-AssistanceConfig of a cell group:
2>	if the UE did not transmit a UEAssistanceInformation message with idc-FDM-Assistance since it was configured to provide IDC assistance information:
3>	if on one or more frequency ranges included in candidateServingFreqRangeListNR, the UE is experiencing IDC problems that it cannot solve by itself; or
3>	if on one or more supported UL CA or NR-DC combination comprising of frequency ranges included in candidateServingFreqRangeListNR, the UE is experiencing IDC problems that it cannot solve by itself:
4>	initiate transmission of the UEAssistanceInformation message in accordance with 5.7.4.3 to provide IDC enhanced FDM assistance information including a list of affected frequency ranges and/or frequency range combinations;
2>	else if the current idc-FDM-Assistance information for the cell group is different from the one indicated in the last transmission of the UEAssistanceInformation message:
3>	initiate transmission of the UEAssistanceInformation message in accordance with 5.7.4.3 to provide IDC enhanced FDM assistance information including a list of affected frequency ranges and/or frequency range combinations;
1>	if configured to provide IDC assistance information based on idc-TDM-AssistanceConfig included in idc-AssistanceConfig of a cell group:
2>	if the UE did not transmit a UEAssistanceInformation message with idc-TDM-Assistance since it was configured to provide IDC assistance information:
3>	if on one or more frequencies included in candidateServingFreqListNR or frequency ranges included in candidateServingFreqRangeListNR, the UE is experiencing IDC problems that it cannot solve by itself; or
3>	if on one or more supported UL CA or NR-DC combination comprising of carrier frequencies included in candidateServingFreqListNR or frequency ranges included in candidateServingFreqRangeListNR, the UE is experiencing IDC problems that it cannot solve by itself:
4>	initiate transmission of the UEAssistanceInformation message in accordance with 5.7.4.3 to provide IDC TDM assistance information;
2>	else if the current idc-TDM-Assistance information for the cell group is different from the one indicated in the last transmission of the UEAssistanceInformation message:
3>	initiate transmission of the UEAssistanceInformation message in accordance with 5.7.4.3 to provide IDC TDM assistance information;
NOTE 1:	The term "IDC problems" refers to interference issues applicable across several subframes/slots where not necessarily all the subframes/slots are affected.
NOTE 2:	For the frequencies or frequency range(s) on which a serving cell or serving cells is configured that is activated, IDC problems consist of interference issues that the UE cannot solve by itself, during either active data exchange or upcoming data activity which is expected in up to a few hundred milliseconds. For frequencies or frequency range(s) on which a SCell or SCells is configured that is deactivated, reporting IDC problems indicates an anticipation that the activation of the SCell or SCells would result in interference issues that the UE would not be able to solve by itself. For a non-serving frequency or frequency range(s), reporting IDC problems indicates an anticipation that if the non-serving frequency or frequencies or frequency range(s) became a serving frequency or serving frequencies or frequency range(s) then this would result in interference issues that the UE would not be able to solve by itself.
1>	if configured to provide its preference on DRX parameters of a cell group for power saving:
2>	if the UE has a preference on DRX parameters of the cell group and the UE did not transmit a UEAssistanceInformation message with drx-Preference for the cell group since it was configured to provide its preference on DRX parameters of the cell group for power saving; or
2>	if the current drx-Preference information for the cell group is different from the one indicated in the last transmission of the UEAssistanceInformation message including drx-Preference for the cell group and timer T346a associated with the cell group is not running:
3>	start the timer T346a with the timer value set to the drx-PreferenceProhibitTimer of the cell group;
3>	initiate transmission of the UEAssistanceInformation message in accordance with 5.7.4.3 to provide the current drx-Preference;
1>	if configured to provide its preference on the maximum aggregated bandwidth of a cell group for power saving:
2>	if the UE has a preference on the maximum aggregated bandwidth of the cell group and the UE did not transmit a UEAssistanceInformation message with maxBW-Preference and/or maxBW-PreferenceFR2-2 for the cell group since it was configured to provide its preference on the maximum aggregated bandwidth of the cell group for power saving; or
2>	if the current maxBW-Preference information for the cell group is different from the one indicated in the last transmission of the UEAssistanceInformation message including maxBW-Preference and/or maxBW-PreferenceFR2-2for the cell group and timer T346b associated with the cell group is not running:
3>	start the timer T346b with the timer value set to the maxBW-PreferenceProhibitTimer of the cell group;
3>	initiate transmission of the UEAssistanceInformation message in accordance with 5.7.4.3 to provide the current maxBW-Preference and/or maxBW-PreferenceFR2-2;
1>	if configured to provide its preference on the maximum number of secondary component carriers of a cell group for power saving:
2>	if the UE has a preference on the maximum number of secondary component carriers of the cell group and the UE did not transmit a UEAssistanceInformation message with maxCC-Preference for the cell group since it was configured to provide its preference on the maximum number of secondary component carriers of the cell group for power saving; or
2>	if the current maxCC-Preference information for the cell group is different from the one indicated in the last transmission of the UEAssistanceInformation message including maxCC-Preference for the cell group and timer T346c associated with the cell group is not running:
3>	start the timer T346c with the timer value set to the maxCC-PreferenceProhibitTimer of the cell group;
3>	initiate transmission of the UEAssistanceInformation message in accordance with 5.7.4.3 to provide the current maxCC-Preference;
1>	if configured to provide its preference on the maximum number of MIMO layers of a cell group for power saving:
2>	if the UE has a preference on the maximum number of MIMO layers of the cell group and the UE did not transmit a UEAssistanceInformation message with maxMIMO-LayerPreference and/or maxMIMO-LayerPreferenceFR2-2 for the cell group since it was configured to provide its preference on the maximum number of MIMO layers of the cell group for power saving; or
2>	if the current maxMIMO-LayerPreference information for the cell group is different from the one indicated in the last transmission of the UEAssistanceInformation message including maxMIMO-LayerPreference and/or maxMIMO-LayerPreferenceFR2-2 for the cell group and timer T346d associated with the cell group is not running:
3>	start the timer T346d with the timer value set to the maxMIMO-LayerPreferenceProhibitTimer of the cell group;
3>	initiate transmission of the UEAssistanceInformation message in accordance with 5.7.4.3 to provide the current maxMIMO-LayerPreference and/or maxMIMO-LayerPreferenceFR2-2;
1>	if configured to provide its preference on the minimum scheduling offset for cross-slot scheduling of a cell group for power saving:
2>	if the UE has a preference on the minimum scheduling offset for cross-slot scheduling of the cell group and the UE did not transmit a UEAssistanceInformation message with minSchedulingOffsetPreference and/or minSchedulingOffsetPreferenceExt for the cell group since it was configured to provide its preference on the minimum scheduling offset for cross-slot scheduling of the cell group for power saving; or
2>	if the current minSchedulingOffsetPreference and/or minSchedulingOffsetPreferenceExt information for the cell group is different from the one indicated in the last transmission of the UEAssistanceInformation message including minSchedulingOffsetPreference and/or minSchedulingOffsetPreferenceExt for the cell group and timer T346e associated with the cell group is not running:
3>	start the timer T346e with the timer value set to the minSchedulingOffsetPreferenceProhibitTimer of the cell group;
3>	initiate transmission of the UEAssistanceInformation message in accordance with 5.7.4.3 to provide the current minSchedulingOffsetPreference and/or minSchedulingOffsetPreferenceExt;
1>	if configured to provide its release preference and timer T346f is not running:
2>	if the UE determines that it would prefer to transition out of RRC_CONNECTED state; or
2>	if the UE is configured with connectedReporting and the UE determines that it would prefer to revert an earlier indication to transition out of RRC_CONNECTED state:
3>	start timer T346f with the timer value set to the releasePreferenceProhibitTimer;
3>	initiate transmission of the UEAssistanceInformation message in accordance with 5.7.4.3 to provide the release preference;
1>	if configured to provide configured grant assistance information for NR sidelink communication:
2>	initiate transmission of the UEAssistanceInformation message in accordance with 5.7.4.3 to provide configured grant assistance information for NR sidelink communication;
1>	if configured to provide preference in being provisioned with reference time information:
2>	if the UE did not transmit a UEAssistanceInformation message with referenceTimeInfoPreference since it was configured to provide preference; or
2>	if the UE's preference changed from the last time UE initiated transmission of the UEAssistanceInformation message including referenceTimeInfoPreference:
3>	initiate transmission of the UEAssistanceInformation message in accordance with 5.7.4.3 to provide preference in being provisioned with reference time information.
1>	if configured to provide its preference on FR2 UL gap:
2>	if the UE did not transmit a UEAssistanceInformation message with ul-GapFR2-Preference since it was configured to provide its preference on FR2 UL gap information:
3>	if the UE has a preference on FR2 UL gap activation/deactivation:
4>	initiate transmission of the UEAssistanceInformation message in accordance with 5.7.4.3 to provide FR2 UL gap preference;
2>	else if the current FR2 UL gap preference is different from the one indicated in the last transmission of the UEAssistanceInformation message:
3>	initiate transmission of the UEAssistanceInformation message in accordance with 5.7.4.3 to provide FR2 UL gap preference.
1>	if configured to provide MUSIM assistance information for leaving RRC_CONNECTED:
2>	if the UE needs to leave RRC_CONNECTED state and the timer T346g is not running:
3>	initiate transmission of the UEAssistanceInformation message in accordance with 5.7.4.3 to provide MUSIM assistance information for leaving RRC_CONNECTED;
3>	start the timer T346g with the timer value set to the musim-LeaveWithoutResponseTimer;
1>	if configured to provide MUSIM assistance information for gap preference:
2>	if configured to provide MUSIM assistance information for gap priority preference:
3>	if the UE has a preference on the MUSIM gap(s) and the UE did not transmit a UEAssistanceInformation message with musim-GapPreferenceList and/or musim-GapPriorityPreferenceList and/or musim-GapKeepPreference since it was configured to provide MUSIM assistance information for gap preference and gap priority preference and the timer T346h is not running; or
3>	if the current musim-GapPreferenceList and/or musim-GapPriorityPreferenceList and/or musim-GapKeepPreference is different from the one indicated in the last transmission of the UEAssistanceInformation message including musim-GapPreferenceList and/or musim-GapPriorityPreferenceList and/or musim-GapKeepPreference and the timer T346h is not running:
4>	initiate transmission of the UEAssistanceInformation message in accordance with 5.7.4.3 to provide the current musim-GapPreferenceList and/or musim-GapPriorityPreferenceList and/or musim-GapKeepPreference;
4>	start the timer T346h with the timer value set to the musim-GapProhibitTimer.
2>	else:
3>	if the UE has a preference on the MUSIM gap(s) and the UE did not transmit a UEAssistanceInformation message with musim-GapPreferenceList since it was configured to provide MUSIM assistance information for gap preference; or
3>	if the current musim-GapPreferenceList is different from the one indicated in the last transmission of the UEAssistanceInformation message including musim-GapPreferenceList and the timer T346h is not running:
4>	initiate transmission of the UEAssistanceInformation message in accordance with 5.7.4.3 to provide the current musim-GapPreferenceList;
4>	start the timer T346h with the timer value set to the musim-GapProhibitTimer.
NOTE 3:	The UE does not need to initiate transmission of the UEAssistanceInformation message if the difference between the current musim-GapPreferenceList and the last transmission of the UEAssistanceInformation message including musim-GapPreferenceList is only due to removal of an ended aperiodic gap.
1>	if configured to provide MUSIM assistance information for temporary capability restriction:
2>	if the UE has temporary capability restriction on the current configuration and timer T348 is not running:
3>	initiate transmission of the UEAssistanceInformation message in accordance with 5.7.4.3 to provide the current musim-Cell-SCG-ToRelease and/or musim-CellToAffectList;
3>	start the timer T348 with the timer value set to the musim-WaitTimer.
2>	if the UE has temporary capability restriction on the combination(s) of bands comprising of band(s) included in musim-CandidateBandList or if the UE has temporary capability restriction on the maximum CC number, and the UE did not transmit a UEAssistanceInformation message with musim-AffectedBandsList and/or musim-AvoidedBandsList and/or musim-MaxCC since it was configured to provide MUSIM assistance information for temporary capability restriction and timer T346n is not running; or
2>	if the current musim-AffectedBandsList and/or musim-AvoidedBandsList and/or musim-MaxCC is different from the one indicated in the last transmission of the UEAssistanceInformation message including musim-CapRestriction and timer T346n is not running:
3>	initiate transmission of the UEAssistanceInformation message in accordance with 5.7.4.3 to provide the current musim-AffectedBandsList and/or musim-AvoidedBandsList and/or musim-MaxCC;
3>	start the timer T346n with the timer value set to the musim-ProhibitTimer.
2>	if the UE is configured to provide the measurement gap requirement information of NR target bands and if the current measurement gap requirement information is different from the one indicated in the last transmission of the UEAssistanceInformation message including musim-NeedForGapsInfoNR or RRCReconfigurationComplete message or RRCResumeComplete message including needForGapsInfoNR:
3>	initiate transmission of the UEAssistanceInformation message in accordance with 5.7.4.3 to provide the current musim-NeedForGapsInfoNR;
2>	if the UE has included musim-CapRestrictionInd in the RRCSetupComplete message or RRCResumeComplete or RRCReestablishmentComplete message and the temporary capability restriction is not applicable when the UE is configured to provide MUSIM assistance information for temporary capability restriction:
3>	initiate transmission of the UEAssistanceInformation message in accordance with 5.7.4.3 to indicate that there is no temporary capability restriction;
1>	if configured to provide the relaxation state of RLM measurements of a cell group and RLM measurement of the cell group is not stopped:
2>	if the UE did not transmit a UEAssistanceInformation message with rlm-MeasRelaxationState since it was configured to provide the relaxation state of RLM measurements for the cell group; or
2>	if the relaxation state of RLM measurements for the cell group is currently different from the relaxation state reported in the last transmission of the UEAssistanceInformation message including rlm-MeasRelaxationState of the cell group and timer T346j associated with the cell group is not running:
3>	start timer T346j with the timer value set to the rlm-RelaxtionReportingProhibitTimer;
3>	initiate transmission of the UEAssistanceInformation message in accordance with 5.7.4.3 to provide the relaxation state of RLM measurements of the cell group;
1>	if configured to provide the relaxation state of BFD measurements of serving cells of a cell group and BFD measurement of the cell group is not stopped:
2>	if the UE did not transmit a UEAssistanceInformation message with bfd-MeasRelaxationState since it was configured to provide the relaxation state of BFD measurements for the cell group; or
2>	if the relaxation state of BFD measurements in any serving cell of the cell group is currently different from the relaxation state reported in the last transmission of the UEAssistanceInformation message including bfd-MeasRelaxationState of the cell group and timer T346k associated with the cell group is not running:
3>	start timer T346k with the timer value set to the bfd-RelaxtionReportingProhibitTimer;
3>	initiate transmission of the UEAssistanceInformation message in accordance with 5.7.4.3 to provide the relaxation state of BFD measurements of serving cells of the cell group.
1>	if data and/or signalling mapped to radio bearers not configured for SDT becomes available during SDT (i.e. while SDT procedure is ongoing):
2>	if the UE did not transmit a UEAssistanceInformation message with nonSDT-DataIndication since the initiation of the current resume procedure for SDT:
3>	initiate transmission of the UEAssistanceInformation message in accordance with 5.7.4.3 to provide nonSDT-DataIndication.
1>	if configured to provide its preference for SCG deactivation and timer T346i is not running;
2>	if the UE prefers the SCG to be deactivated and did not transmit a UEAssistanceInformation message with scg-DeactivationPreference since it was configured to provide its SCG deactivation preference; or
2>	if the UE preference for SCG deactivation is different from the last indicated scg-DeactivationPreference:
3>	start timer T346i with the timer value set to the scg-DeactivationPreferenceProhibitTimer;
3>	initiate transmission of the UEAssistanceInformation message in accordance with 5.7.4.3 to provide the UE preference for SCG deactivation;
1>	if the SCG is deactivated, and,
1>	the UE has uplink data to send for an SCG RLC entity while the UE previously did not have any uplink data to send for any SCG RLC entity:
2>	initiate transmission of the UEAssistanceInformation message in accordance with 5.7.4.3 to indicate that the UE has uplink data to send for a DRB whose DRB-Identity is not included in any RLC-BearerConfig in the CellGroupConfig associated with the MCG.
1>	if configured to send indications of RRM measurement relaxation criterion fulfilment:
2>	if the criterion in 5.7.4.4 is met for a period of TSearchDeltaP-StationaryConnected:
3>	if the UE did not transmit a UEAssistanceInformation message with rrm-MeasRelaxationFulfilment as true since it was configured to provide indications of RRM measurement relaxation criterion fulfilment; or
3>	the last UEAssistanceInformation message indicated the criterion in 5.7.4.4 is not fulfilled with rrm-MeasRelaxationFulfilment as false:
4>	initiate transmission of the UEAssistanceInformation message in accordance with 5.7.4.3 to indicate that the criterion for RRM measurement relaxation for connected mode is fulfilled;
2>	else:
3>	if the last UEAssistanceInformation message indicated fulfilment of the criterion in 5.7.4.4 with rrm-MeasRelaxationFulfilment as true:
4>	initiate transmission of the UEAssistanceInformation message in accordance with 5.7.4.3 to indicate that the criterion for RRM measurement relaxation for connected mode is not fulfilled.
1>	if configured to provide service link propagation delay difference between serving cell and neighbour cell(s);
2>	if the UE did not transmit a UEAssistanceInformation message with propagationDelayDifference since it was configured to provide service link propagation delay difference between serving cell and neighbour cell(s); or
2>	for any neighbour cell in neighCellInfoList, if the service link propagation delay difference between serving cell and the neighbour cell has changed more than threshPropDelayDiff since the last transmission of the UEAssistanceInformation message including propagationDelayDifference:
3>	initiate transmission of the UEAssistanceInformation message in accordance with 5.7.4.3 to provide service link propagation delay difference between serving cell and each neighbour cell included in the neighCellInfoList;
1>	if configured to provide its preference for multi-Rx operation and timer T346m is not running;
2>	if the UE has a preference on multi-Rx operation for FR2 and did not transmit a UEAssistanceInformation message with multiRx-PreferenceFR2 since it was configured to provide its preference on multi-Rx operation; or
2>	if the UE has a different preference on multi-Rx operation for FR2 from the last indicated multiRx-PreferenceFR2:
3>	start timer T346m with the timer value set to the multiRx-PreferenceReportingConfigFR2ProhibitTimer;
3>	initiate transmission of the UEAssistanceInformation message in accordance with 5.7.4.3 to provide the UE preference for multi-Rx operation for FR2.
1>	if configured to indicate the availability of flight path information and the UE has (updated) flight path information available:
2>	if the UE had neither provided a flight path information nor indicated the availability of flight path information since last entering RRC_CONNECTED state; or
2>	if at least one waypoint or a timestamp corresponding to a waypoint location that was not previously provided since last entering RRC_CONNECTED state is available; or
2>	if at least one upcoming waypoint or a timestamp corresponding to a waypoint location that was previously provided since last entering RRC_CONNECTED state is to be removed; or
2>	if flightPathUpdateDistanceThr is configured and, for at least one waypoint, the 3D distance between the previously provided location and the new location is more than the distance threshold configured by flightPathUpdateDistanceThr; or
2> if flightPathUpdateTimeThr is configured and, for at least one waypoint, the time difference between the previously provided timestamp and the new timestamp, if available, is more than the time threshold configured by flightPathUpdateTimeThr:
3>	initiate transmission of the UEAssistanceInformation message in accordance with 5.7.4.3 to indicate the availability of flight path information;
NOTE 4:	If neither flightPathUpdateDistanceThr nor flightPathUpdateTimeThr is configured, it is up to UE implementation whether to initiate transmission of the UEAssistanceInformation message when updated flight path information is available.
1>	if configured to provide UL traffic information:
2>	if the UE did not transmit a UEAssistanceInformation message with ul-TrafficInfo since it was configured to provide UL traffic information; or
2>	if UL traffic information included in the previous UEAssistanceInformation has changed since the last transmission of the UEAssistanceInformation message containing ul-TrafficInfo for at least one QoS flow for which timer T346l is not running:
3>	initiate transmission of the UEAssistanceInformation message in accordance with 5.7.4.3 to provide UL traffic information.
NOTE 5:	The UE only considers burstArrivalTime to have changed when it changes relative to the periodicity of the Data Burst arrival.
1>	if configured to report relay UE information with non-3GPP connection(s):
2>	if the UE did not transmit a UEAssistanceInformation message with n3c-relayUE-InfoList since it was configured to report available relay UE information with non-3GPP connection(s); or
2>	if the UE has new available non-3GPP connection(s); or
2>	if the non-3GPP connection(s) with the reported relay UE(s) is not available:
3>	initiate transmission of the UEAssistanceInformation message in accordance with 5.7.4.3 to report relay UE information with non-3GPP connection(s) included in the n3c-relayUE-InfoList;
1>	if configured to provide configured grant assistance information for NR sidelink positioning:
2>	initiate transmission of the UEAssistanceInformation message in accordance with 5.7.4.3 to provide configured grant assistance information for NR sidelink positioning;
5.7.4.3	Actions related to transmission of UEAssistanceInformation message
The UE shall set the contents of the UEAssistanceInformation message as follows:
1>	if transmission of the UEAssistanceInformation message is initiated to provide a delay budget report according to 5.7.4.2 or 5.3.5.3;
2>	set delayBudgetReport to type1 according to a desired value;
1>	if transmission of the UEAssistanceInformation message is initiated to provide overheating assistance information according to 5.7.4.2 or 5.3.5.3;
2>	if the UE experiences internal overheating:
3>	if the UE prefers to temporarily reduce the number of maximum secondary component carriers:
4>	include reducedMaxCCs in the OverheatingAssistance IE;
4>	set reducedCCsDL to the number of maximum SCells the UE prefers to be temporarily configured in downlink;
4>	set reducedCCsUL to the number of maximum SCells the UE prefers to be temporarily configured in uplink;
3>	if the UE prefers to temporarily reduce maximum aggregated bandwidth of FR1:
4>	include reducedMaxBW-FR1 in the OverheatingAssistance IE;
4>	set reducedBW-DL to the maximum aggregated bandwidth the UE prefers to be temporarily configured across all downlink carriers of FR1;
4>	set reducedBW-UL to the maximum aggregated bandwidth the UE prefers to be temporarily configured across all uplink carriers of FR1;
3>	if the UE prefers to temporarily reduce maximum aggregated bandwidth of FR2-1:
4>	include reducedMaxBW-FR2 in the OverheatingAssistance IE;
4>	set reducedBW-DL to the maximum aggregated bandwidth the UE prefers to be temporarily configured across all downlink carriers of FR2-1;
4>	set reducedBW-UL to the maximum aggregated bandwidth the UE prefers to be temporarily configured across all uplink carriers of FR2-1;
3>	if the UE prefers to temporarily reduce maximum aggregated bandwidth of FR2-2:
4>	include reducedMaxBW-FR2-2 in the OverheatingAssistance IE;
4>	set reducedBW-FR2-2-DL to the maximum aggregated bandwidth the UE prefers to be temporarily configured across all downlink carriers of FR2-2;
4>	set reducedBW-FR2-2-UL to the maximum aggregated bandwidth the UE prefers to be temporarily configured across all uplink carriers of FR2-2;
3>	if the UE prefers to temporarily reduce the number of maximum MIMO layers of each serving cell operating on FR1:
4>	include reducedMaxMIMO-LayersFR1 in the OverheatingAssistance IE;
4>	set reducedMIMO-LayersFR1-DL to the number of maximum MIMO layers of each serving cell operating on FR1 the UE prefers to be temporarily configured in downlink;
4>	set reducedMIMO-LayersFR1-UL to the number of maximum MIMO layers of each serving cell operating on FR1 the UE prefers to be temporarily configured in uplink;
3>	if the UE prefers to temporarily reduce the number of maximum MIMO layers of each serving cell operating on FR2-1:
4>	include reducedMaxMIMO-LayersFR2 in the OverheatingAssistance IE;
4>	set reducedMIMO-LayersFR2-DL to the number of maximum MIMO layers of each serving cell operating on FR2-1 the UE prefers to be temporarily configured in downlink;
4>	set reducedMIMO-LayersFR2-UL to the number of maximum MIMO layers of each serving cell operating on FR2-1 the UE prefers to be temporarily configured in uplink;
3>	if the UE prefers to temporarily reduce the number of maximum MIMO layers of each serving cell operating on FR2-2:
4>	include reducedMaxMIMO-LayersFR2-2 in the OverheatingAssistance IE;
4>	set reducedMIMO-LayersFR2-2-DL to the number of maximum MIMO layers of each serving cell operating on FR2 the UE prefers to be temporarily configured in downlink;
4>	set reducedMIMO-LayersFR2-2-UL to the number of maximum MIMO layers of each serving cell operating on FR2 the UE prefers to be temporarily configured in uplink;
2>	else (if the UE no longer experiences an overheating condition):
3>	do not include reducedMaxCCs, reducedMaxBW-FR1, reducedMaxBW-FR2, reducedMaxBW-FR2-2, reducedMaxMIMO-LayersFR1, reducedMaxMIMO-LayersFR2 or reducedMaxMIMO-LayersFR2-2 in OverheatingAssistance IE;
1>	if transmission of the UEAssistanceInformation message is initiated to provide IDC FDM assistance information according to 5.7.4.2 or 5.3.5.3:
2>	if there is at least one carrier frequency included in candidateServingFreqListNR, the UE is experiencing IDC problems that it cannot solve by itself:
3>	include the field affectedCarrierFreqList with an entry for each affected carrier frequency included in candidateServingFreqListNR;
3>	for each carrier frequency included in the field affectedCarrierFreqList, include interferenceDirection and set it accordingly;
2>	if there is at least one supported UL CA or NR-DC combination comprising of carrier frequencies included in candidateServingFreqListNR, the UE is experiencing IDC problems that it cannot solve by itself:
3>	include victimSystemType for each UL CA or NR-DC combination included in affectedCarrierFreqCombList;
3>	if the UE sets victimSystemType to wlan or bluetooth:
4>	include affectedCarrierFreqCombList with an entry for each supported UL CA combination comprising of carrier frequencies included in candidateServingFreqListNR, that is affected by IDC problems;
3>	else:
4>	optionally include affectedCarrierFreqCombList with an entry for each supported UL CA or NR-DC combination comprising of carrier frequencies included in candidateServingFreqListNR, that is affected by IDC problems;
1>	if transmission of the UEAssistanceInformation message is initiated to provide IDC enhanced FDM assistance information according to 5.7.4.2 or 5.3.5.3:
2>	if there is at least one affected frequency range overlapping with one candidate frequency range included in candidateServingFreqRangeListNR, and the center frequency of the affected frequency range is within the candidate frequency range included in candidateServingFreqRangeListNR, the UE is experiencing IDC problems that it cannot solve by itself:
3>	include the field affectedCarrierFreqRangeList with an entry for each affected frequency range;
3>	for each affected frequency range included in the field affectedCarrierFreqRangeList, include centerFreq and affectedBandwidth;
3>	for each affected frequency range included in the field affectedCarrierFreqRangeList, include interferenceDirection and optionally victimSystemType, and set it accordingly;
2>	if there is at least one supported UL CA or NR-DC combinations comprising of candidate frequency ranges included in candidateServingFreqRangeListNR, and each affected frequency range in the UL CA or NR-DC combination overlapping with one candidate frequency range included in candidateServingFreqRangeListNR, and the center frequency of the affected frequency range is within the candidate frequency range included in candidateServingFreqRangeListNR, the UE is experiencing IDC problems that it cannot solve by itself:
3>	include the field affectedCarrierFreqRangeCombList with an entry for each supported UL CA or NR-DC combination comprising of frequency ranges that is affected by IDC problems;
3>	for each affected frequency range included in the field affectedCarrierFreqRangeCombList, include centerFreq and affectedBandwidth;
3>	for each UL CA or NR-DC combination included in the field affectedCarrierFreqRangeCombList, include interferenceDirection and optionally victimSystemType, and set it accordingly;
1>	if transmission of the UEAssistanceInformation message is initiated to provide IDC TDM assistance information according to 5.7.4.2 or 5.3.5.3:
2>	if there is at least one candidate carrier frequency included in candidateServingFreqListNR or candidate frequency range included in candidateServingFreqRangeListNR or one supported UL CA or NR-DC combination comprising of candidate carrier frequencies included in candidateServingFreqListNR or candidate frequency ranges included in candidateServingFreqRangeListNR, the UE is experiencing IDC problems that it cannot solve by itself, and affectedCarrierFreqList or affectedCarrierFreqCombList or affectedCarrierFreqRangeList or affectedCarrierFreqRangeCombList is included, and idc-TDM-AssistanceConfig is set to setup:
3>	include Time Domain Multiplexing (TDM) based assistance information as indicated by idc-TDM-Assistance that could be used to resolve the IDC problems;
NOTE 1:	When sending an UEAssistanceInformation message to inform the IDC problems, the UE includes all IDC assistance information in the idc-Assistance (IDC FDM assistance information) or idc-FDM-Assistance (IDC enhanced FDM assistance information) or idc-TDM-Assistance (IDC TDM assistance information) fields respectively (rather than providing e.g. the changed part(s) of the IDC assistance information in respective fields).
NOTE 2:	Upon not anymore experiencing a particular IDC problem that the UE previously reported, the UE provides an IDC indication with the modified contents of the UEAssistanceInformation message (e.g. by not including the IDC assistance information in the idc-Assistance or idc-FDM-Assistance or idc-TDM-Assistance fields).
1>	if transmission of the UEAssistanceInformation message is initiated to provide drx-Preference of a cell group for power saving according to 5.7.4.2 or 5.3.5.3:
2>	include drx-Preference in the UEAssistanceInformation message;
2>	if the UE has a preference on DRX parameters for the cell group:
3>	if the UE has a preference for the long DRX cycle:
4>	include preferredDRX-LongCycle in the DRX-Preference IE and set it to the preferred value;
3>	if the UE has a preference for the DRX inactivity timer:
4>	include preferredDRX-InactivityTimer in the DRX-Preference IE and set it to the preferred value;
3>	if the UE has a preference for the short DRX cycle:
4>	include preferredDRX-ShortCycle in the DRX-Preference IE and set it to the preferred value;
3>	if the UE has a preference for the short DRX timer:
4>	include preferredDRX-ShortCycleTimer in the DRX-Preference IE and set it to the preferred value;
2>	else (if the UE has no preference on DRX parameters for the cell group):
3>	do not include preferredDRX-LongCycle, preferredDRX-InactivityTimer, preferredDRX-ShortCycle and preferredDRX-ShortCycleTimer in the DRX-Preference IE;
1>	if transmission of the UEAssistanceInformation message is initiated to provide maxBW-Preference of a cell group for power saving according to 5.7.4.2 or 5.3.5.3:
2>	include maxBW-Preference in the UEAssistanceInformation message;
2>	if the UE has a preference on the maximum aggregated bandwidth for the cell group:
3>	if the UE prefers to reduce the maximum aggregated bandwidth of FR1:
4>	include reducedMaxBW-FR1 in the MaxBW-Preference IE;
4>	set reducedBW-DL to the maximum aggregated bandwidth the UE desires to have configured across all downlink carriers of FR1 in the cell group;
4>	set reducedBW-UL to the maximum aggregated bandwidth the UE desires to have configured across all uplink carriers of FR1 in the cell group;
3>	if the UE prefers to reduce the maximum aggregated bandwidth of FR2-1:
4>	include reducedMaxBW-FR2 in the MaxBW-Preference IE;
4>	set reducedBW-DL to the maximum aggregated bandwidth the UE desires to have configured across all downlink carriers of FR2-1 in the cell group;
4>	set reducedBW-UL to the maximum aggregated bandwidth the UE desires to have configured across all uplink carriers of FR2-1 in the cell group;
2>	else (if the UE has no preference on the maximum aggregated bandwidth for the cell group):
3>	do not include reducedMaxBW-FR1 and reducedMaxBW-FR2 in the MaxBW-Preference IE;
1>	if transmission of the UEAssistanceInformation message is initiated to provide maxBW-PreferenceFR2-2 of a cell group for power saving according to 5.7.4.2 or 5.3.5.3:
2>	include maxBW-PreferenceFR2-2 in the UEAssistanceInformation message;
3>	if the UE prefers to reduce the maximum aggregated bandwidth of FR2-2:
4>	include reducedMaxBW-FR2-2 in the MaxBW-PreferenceFR2-2 IE;
4>	set reducedBW-FR2-2-DL to the maximum aggregated bandwidth the UE desires to have configured across all downlink carriers of FR2-2 in the cell group;
4>	set reducedBW-FR2-2-UL to the maximum aggregated bandwidth the UE desires to have configured across all uplink carriers of FR2-2 in the cell group;
2>	else (if the UE has no preference on the maximum aggregated bandwidth for the cell group):
3>	do not include reducedMaxBW-FR2-2 in the MaxBW-PreferenceFR2-2 IE;
1>	if transmission of the UEAssistanceInformation message is initiated to provide maxCC-Preference of a cell group for power saving according to 5.7.4.2 or 5.3.5.3:
2>	include maxCC-Preference in the UEAssistanceInformation message;
2>	if the UE has a preference on the maximum number of secondary component carriers for the cell group:
3>	include reducedMaxCCs in the MaxCC-Preference IE;
3>	set reducedCCsDL to the number of maximum SCells the UE desires to have configured in downlink in the cell group;
3>	set reducedCCsUL to the number of maximum SCells the UE desires to have configured in uplink in the cell group;
2>	else (if the UE has no preference on the maximum number of secondary component carriers for the cell group):
3>	do not include reducedMaxCCs in the MaxCC-Preference IE;
NOTE 3:	The UE can implicitly indicate a preference for NR SCG release by reporting the maximum aggregated bandwidth preference for power saving of the cell group, if configured, as zero for both FR1 and FR2, and by reporting the maximum number of secondary component carriers for power saving of the cell group, if configured, as zero for both uplink and downlink.
1>	if transmission of the UEAssistanceInformation message is initiated to provide maxMIMO-LayerPreference of a cell group for power saving according to 5.7.4.2 or 5.3.5.3:
2>	include maxMIMO-LayerPreference in the UEAssistanceInformation message;
2>	if the UE has a preference on the maximum number of MIMO layers for the cell group:
3>	if the UE prefers to reduce the number of maximum MIMO layers of each serving cell operating on FR1:
4>	include reducedMaxMIMO-LayersFR1 in the MaxMIMO-LayerPreference IE;
4>	set reducedMIMO-LayersFR1-DL to the preferred maximum number of downlink MIMO layers of each BWP of each FR1 serving cell that the UE operates on in the cell group;
4>	set reducedMIMO-LayersFR1-UL to the preferred maximum number of uplink MIMO layers of each FR1 serving cell that the UE operates on in the cell group;
3>	if the UE prefers to reduce the number of maximum MIMO layers of each serving cell operating on FR2-1:
4>	include reducedMaxMIMO-LayersFR2 in the MaxMIMO-LayerPreference IE;
4>	set reducedMIMO-LayersFR2-DL to the preferred maximum number of downlink MIMO layers of each BWP of each FR2-1 serving cell that the UE operates on in the cell group;
4>	set reducedMIMO-LayersFR2-UL to the preferred maximum number of uplink MIMO layers of each FR2-1 serving cell that the UE operates on in the cell group;
2>	else (if the UE has no preference on the maximum number of MIMO layers for the cell group):
3>	do not include reducedMaxMIMO-LayersFR1 and reducedMaxMIMO-LayersFR2 in the MaxMIMO-LayerPreference IE;
1>	if transmission of the UEAssistanceInformation message is initiated to provide maxMIMO LayerPreferenceFR2 2 of a cell group for power saving according to 5.7.4.2 or 5.3.5.3:
2>	include maxMIMO-LayerPreferenceFR2-2 in the UEAssistanceInformation message;
2>	if the UE has a preference on the maximum number of MIMO layers for the cell group for FR2-2:
3>	if the UE prefers to reduce the number of maximum MIMO layers of each serving cell operating on FR2 2:
4>	include reducedMaxMIMO-LayersFR2-2 in the MaxMIMO-LayerPreferenceFR2 2 IE;
4>	set reducedMIMO-LayersFR2-2-DL to the preferred maximum number of downlink MIMO layers of each BWP of each FR2-2 serving cell that the UE operates on in the cell group;
4>	set reducedMIMO-LayersFR2-2-UL to the preferred maximum number of uplink MIMO layers of each FR2-2 serving cell that the UE operates on in the cell group;
2>	else (if the UE has no preference on the maximum number of MIMO layers for the cell group):
3>	do not include reducedMaxMIMO-LayersFR2-2 in the MaxMIMO-LayerPreferenceFR2-2 IE;
1>	if transmission of the UEAssistanceInformation message is initiated to provide minSchedulingOffsetPreference of a cell group for power saving according to 5.7.4.2 or 5.3.5.3:
2>	include minSchedulingOffsetPreference in the UEAssistanceInformation message;
2>	if the UE has a preference on the minimum scheduling offset for cross-slot scheduling for the cell group:
3>	if the UE has a preference for the value of K0 (TS 38.214 [19], clause 5.1.2.1) for cross-slot scheduling with 15 kHz SCS:
4>	include preferredK0-SCS-15kHz in the MinSchedulingOffsetPreference IE and set it to the desired value of K0;
3>	if the UE has a preference for the value of K0 for cross-slot scheduling with 30 kHz SCS:
4>	include preferredK0-SCS-30kHz in the MinSchedulingOffsetPreference IE and set it to the desired value of K0;
3>	if the UE has a preference for the value of K0 for cross-slot scheduling with 60 kHz SCS:
4>	include preferredK0-SCS-60kHz in the MinSchedulingOffsetPreference IE and set it to the desired value of K0;
3>	if the UE has a preference for the value of K0 for cross-slot scheduling with 120 kHz SCS:
4>	include preferredK0-SCS-120kHz in the MinSchedulingOffsetPreference IE and set it to the desired value of K0;
3>	if the UE has a preference for the value of K2 (TS 38.214 [19], clause 6.1.2.1) for cross-slot scheduling with 15 kHz SCS:
4>	include preferredK2-SCS-15kHz in the MinSchedulingOffsetPreference IE and set it to the desired value of K2;
3>	if the UE has a preference for the value of K2 for cross-slot scheduling with 30 kHz SCS:
4>	include preferredK2-SCS-30kHz in the MinSchedulingOffsetPreference IE and set it to the desired value of K2;
3>	if the UE has a preference for the value of K2 for cross-slot scheduling with 60 kHz SCS:
4>	include preferredK2-SCS-60kHz in the MinSchedulingOffsetPreference IE and set it to the desired value of K2;
3>	if the UE has a preference for the value of K2 for cross-slot scheduling with 120 kHz SCS:
4>	include preferredK2-SCS-120kHz in the MinSchedulingOffsetPreference IE and set it to the desired value of K2;
2>	else (if the UE has no preference on the minimum scheduling offset for cross-slot scheduling for the cell group):
3>	do not include preferredK0 and preferredK2 in the MinSchedulingOffsetPreference IE;
1>	if transmission of the UEAssistanceInformation message is initiated to provide minSchedulingOffsetPreferenceExt of a cell group for power saving according to 5.7.4.2 or 5.3.5.3:
2>	include minSchedulingOffsetPreferenceExt in the UEAssistanceInformation message;
2>	if the UE has a preference on the minimum scheduling offset for cross-slot scheduling for the cell group for FR2-2:
3>	include minSchedulingOffsetPreferenceExt in the UEAssistanceInformation message;
4>	if the UE has a preference for the value of K0 (TS 38.214 [19], clause 5.1.2.1) for cross-slot scheduling with 480 kHz SCS:
5>	include preferredK0-SCS-480kHz in the minSchedulingOffsetPreferenceExt IE and set it to the desired value of K0;
4>	if the UE has a preference for the value of K0 for cross-slot scheduling with 960 kHz SCS:
5>	include preferredK0-SCS-960kHz in the minSchedulingOffsetPreferenceExt IE and set it to the desired value of K0;
4>	if the UE has a preference for the value of K2 for cross-slot scheduling with 480 kHz SCS:
5>	include preferredK2-SCS-480kHz in the minSchedulingOffsetPreferenceExt IE and set it to the desired value of K2;
4>	if the UE has a preference for the value of K2 for cross-slot scheduling with 960 kHz SCS:
5>	include preferredK2-SCS-960kHz in the minSchedulingOffsetPreferenceExt IE and set it to the desired value of K2;
3>	else (if the UE has no preference on the minimum scheduling offset for cross-slot scheduling for the cell group):
4>	do not include preferredK0 and preferredK2 in the minSchedulingOffsetPreferenceExt IE;
1>	if transmission of the UEAssistanceInformation message is initiated to provide a release preference according to 5.7.4.2 or 5.3.5.3:
2>	include releasePreference in the UEAssistanceInformation message;
2>	set preferredRRC-State to the desired RRC state on transmission of the UEAssistanceInformation message;
1>	if transmission of the UEAssistanceInformation message is initiated to provide an indication of preference in being provisioned with reference time information according to 5.7.4.2 or 5.3.5.3:
2>	if the UE has a preference in being provisioned with reference time information:
3>	set referenceTimeInfoPreference to true;
2>	else:
3>	set referenceTimeInfoPreference to false.
1>	if transmission of the UEAssistanceInformation message is initiated to provide preference on FR2 UL gap according to 5.7.4.2 or 5.3.5.3:
2>	if the UE has a preference for FR2 UL gap configuration:
3>	set ul-GapFR2-PatternPreference to the preferred FR2 UL gap pattern;
2>	else (if the UE has no preference for the FR2 UL gap configuration):
3>	do not include ul-GapFR2-PatternPreference in the UL-GapFR2-Preference IE.
1>	if transmission of the UEAssistanceInformation message is initiated to provide musim-GapPreferenceList and/or musim-GapPriorityPreferenceList and/or musim-GapKeepPreference, or provide MUSIM assistance information for leaving RRC_CONNECTED according to 5.7.4.2 or 5.3.5.3:
2>	if the UE has a preference for MUSIM periodic gap(s):
3>	include musim-GapPreferenceList with an entry for each periodic gap the UE prefers to be configured;
4>	set musim-GapLength and musim-GapRepetitionAndOffset in the musim-GapInfo IE to the values of the length and the repetition/offset of the gap(s), respectively, the UE prefers to be configured with;
4>	if UE has a preference for MUSIM gap priority;
5>	include the musim-GapPriorityPreferenceList the UE prefers to be configured;
2>	if the UE has a preference for MUSIM aperiodic gap:
3>	include the field musim-GapPreferenceList, with one entry for the aperiodic gap the UE prefers to be configured;
4>	include musim-GapLength in the musim-GapInfo IE and set it to the values of the length of the gap the UE prefers to be configured with;
4>	optionally include musim-Starting-SFN-AndSubframe in the musim-GapInfo IE and set it to the starting SFN/subframe of the gap the UE prefers to be configured with;
2>	if the UE has a preference to keep all colliding MUSIM gaps:
3>	include the musim-GapKeepPreference;
2>	if the UE has no longer preference for the periodic/aperiodic gaps:
3>	do not include musim-GapPreferenceList, musim-GapPriorityPreferenceList and musim-GapKeepPreference in the musim-Assistance IE;
2>	if UE has a preference to leave RRC_CONNECTED state:
3>	set musim-PreferredRRC-State to the preferred RRC state.
1>	if transmission of the UEAssistanceInformation message is initiated to provide musim-CapRestriction according to 5.7.4.2 or 5.3.5.3:
2>	if UE has a preference for temporary capability restriction:
3>	if UE has a preference for serving cell(s), except PCell, and/or SCG to be released:
4>	include the musim-Cell-SCG-ToRelease;
5>	set musim-CellToRelease to include the serving cell(s) the UE prefers to be released;
5>	set scg-ReleasePreference to scgReleasePreferred if the UE prefers the SCG to be released;
3>	if UE has a preference to indicate the serving cells with restricted capabilities:
4>	include the musim-CellToAffectList the UE prefers to be configured;
5>	include the musim-ServCellIndex and the musim-MIMO-Layers-DL/ musim-MIMO-Layers-UL/ musim-SupportedBandwidth-DL/ musim-SupportedBandwidth-UL for the corresponding serving cell;
3>	if UE has a preference to indicate the maximum number of CCs:
4>	include the musim-CapRestriction for the musim-MaxCC the UE prefers to be configured;
5>	include the musim-MaxCC-TotalDL/ musim-MaxCC-TotalUL/ musim-MaxCC-FR1-DL/ musim-MaxCC-FR1-UL/ musim-MaxCC-FR2-1-DL/ musim-MaxCC-FR2-2-UL/ musim-MaxCC-FR2-2-DL/ musim-MaxCC-FR2-2-UL for the corresponding maximum number of CCs;
3>	if UE has a preference to indicate band(s) and/or combination(s) of bands with capabilities restricted which comprise of the band(s) that is/are indicated in musim-CandidateBandList:
4>	include the musim-AffectededBandsList the UE prefer to be configured with capabilities restricted;
5>	include the musim-bandEntryIndex for each band or each band of the combination(s) for which capabilities are restricted;
5>	include the musim-CapabilityRestricted for the corresponding band;
3>	if UE has a preference to indicate band(s) and/or combination(s) of bands to be avoided which comprise of band(s) that is indicated in musim-CandidateBandList:
4>	include the musim-AvoidedBandsList the UE prefers not to be configured;
5>	include the musim-bandEntryIndex for each band or each band of the combination(s) to be avoided;
2>	if UE has no longer preference for temporary capability restriction indicated by musim-Cell-SCG-ToRelease, musim-CellToAffectList, musim-MaxCC, musim-AffectededBandsList and/or musim-AvoidedBandsList:
3>	do not include the corresponding temporary capability restriction preference in the musim-CapRestriction;
1>	if transmission of the UEAssistanceInformation message is initiated to provide musim-NeedForGapsInfoNR according to 5.7.4.2 or 5.3.5.3:
2>	include intraFreq-needForGap and set the gap requirement information of intra-frequency measurement for each supported NR serving cell;
2>	if the requestedTargetBandFilterNR-r16 of NeedForGapsConfigNR is configured:
3>	for each supported NR band included in requestedTargetBandFilterNR-r16, include an entry in interFreq-needForGap and set the measurement gap requirement information for that band;
2>	else:
3>	include an entry in interFreq-needForGap and set the measurement gap requirement information for each supported NR band;
1>	if transmission of the UEAssistanceInformation message is initiated to provide the relaxation state of RLM measurements of a cell group according to 5.7.4.2:
2>	if the UE performs RLM measurement relaxation on the cell group according to TS 38.133 [14]:
3>	set the rlm-MeasRelaxationState to true;
2>	else:
3>	set the rlm-MeasRelaxationState to false;
1>	if transmission of the UEAssistanceInformation message is initiated to provide the relaxation state of BFD measurements of a cell group:
2>	for each serving cell of the cell group:
3>	if the UE performs BFD measurement relaxation on this serving cell according to TS 38.133 [14]:
4>	set the n-th bit of bfd-MeasRelaxationState to '1', where n is equal to the servCellIndex value + 1 of the serving cell;
3>	else:
4>	set the n-th bit of bfd-MeasRelaxationState to '0', where n is equal to the servCellIndex value + 1 of the serving cell.
1>	if transmission of the UEAssistanceInformation message is initiated to indicate availability of data mapped to radio bearers not configured for SDT according to 5.7.4.2:
2>	include the nonSDT-DataIndication in the UEAssistanceInformation message;
2>	include and set the resumeCause according to the information received from the upper layers, if provided.
1>	if transmission of the UEAssistanceInformation message is initiated to provide an indication of preference for SCG deactivation according to 5.7.4.2:
2>	include scg-DeactivationPreference in the UEAssistanceInformation message;
2>	set the scg-DeactivationPreference to scg-DeactivationPreferred if the UE prefers the SCG to be deactivated, otherwise set it to noPreference;
1>	if transmission of the UEAssistanceInformation message is initiated to provide an indication that the UE has uplink data related to a deactivated SCG according to 5.7.4.2:
2>	include uplinkData in the UEAssistanceInformation message.
1>	if transmission of the UEAssistanceInformation message is initiated to provide an indication about whether the criterion for RRM relaxation for connected mode is fulfilled or not fulfilled:
2>	if the criterion for RRM measurement relaxation for connected mode is fulfilled:
3>	set the rrm-MeasRelaxationFulfilment to true;
2>	else:
3>	set the rrm-MeasRelaxationFulfilment to false.
1>	if transmission of the UEAssistanceInformation message is initiated to provide the service link propagation delay difference between serving cell and neighbour cell(s) according to 5.7.4.2;
2>	include the propagationDelayDifference for each neighbour cell in the neighCellInfoList;
1>	if transmission of the UEAssistanceInformation message is initiated to provide preference on multi-Rx operation for FR2 according to 5.7.4.2:
2>	if the UE has a preference for not operating on multi-Rx (i.e. not supporting simultaneous reception with different QCL-typeD) for FR2:
3>	set multiRx-PreferenceFR2 to single;
2>	else (if the UE has the preference for operating on multi-Rx for FR2):
3>	set multiRx-PreferenceFR2 to multiple.
1>	if transmission of the UEAssistanceInformation message is initiated to indicate the availability of flight path information according to 5.7.4.2 or 5.3.5.3;
2>	include the flightPathInfoAvailable;
1>	if transmission of the UEAssistanceInformation message is initiated to provide UL traffic information according to 5.7.4.2 or 5.3.5.3:
2>	for each PDU session for which the UE intends to provide UL traffic information in this UEAssistanceInformation message:
3>	set pdu-SessionID to the value of the concerned PDU session ID;
3>	if transmission of the UEAssistanceInformation message is initiated to provide UL traffic information according to 5.3.5.3:
4>	stop timer T346l for each QoS flow of this PDU session for which the UE intends to provide UL traffic information in this UEAssistanceInformation message;
3>	for each QoS flow of this PDU session for which timer T346l is not running and for which the UE intends to provide UL traffic information in this UEAssistanceInformation message:
4>	start timer T346l associated to this QoS flow with the timer value set to the value of ul-TrafficInfoProhibitTimer;
4>	set qfi to the value of the concerned QFI;
4>	if the jitter range measurement is available; and
4>	if the UE did not provide jitter range since it was configured to provide UL traffic information, or if the measured jitter range has changed since the last transmission of the UEAssistanceInformation message containing jitterRange:
5>	set jitterRange to the latest measured value of the jitter range;
4>	if the burst arrival time measurement is available; and
4>	if the UE did not provide burst arrival time since it was configured to provide UL traffic information, or if the measured burst arrival time has changed since the last transmission of the UEAssistanceInformation message containing burstArrivalTime:
5>	set burstArrivalTime to the latest measured value of the burst arrival time;
4>	if the traffic periodicity measurement is available; and
4>	if the UE did not provide traffic periodicity since it was configured to provide UL traffic information, or if the measured traffic periodicity has changed since the last transmission of the UEAssistanceInformation message containing trafficPeriodicity:
5>	set trafficPeriodicity to the latest measured value of the traffic periodicity;
4>	if the UE did not provide pdu-SetIdentification since it was configured to provide UL traffic information, or if the information previously provided in pdu-SetIdentification has changed since the last transmission of the UEAssistanceInformation message containing pdu-SetIdentification:
5>	if the UE is able to identify PDU Set(s) for the QoS flow:
6>	set pdu-SetIdentification to true;
5>	else:
6>	set pdu-SetIdentification to false.
4>	if the UE did not provide psi-Identification since it was configured to provide UL traffic information, or if the information previously provided in psi-Identification has changed since the last transmission of the UEAssistanceInformation message containing psi-Identification:
5>	if the UE is able to identify PSI(s) for the QoS flow:
6>	set psi-Identification to true;
5>	else:
6>	set psi-Identification to false.
1>	if transmission of the UEAssistanceInformation message is initiated to report relay UE information with non-3GPP connection(s) according to 5.7.4.2:
2>	include n3c-relayUE-InfoList in the UEAssistanceInformation message;
The UE shall set the contents of the UEAssistanceInformation message for configured grant assistance information for NR sidelink communication or NR sidelink positioning:
1>	if configured to provide configured grant assistance information for NR sidelink:
2>	include the sl-UE-AssistanceInformationNR;
1>	if configured to provide configured grant assistance information for NR sidelink positioning:
2>	include the sl-PRS-UE-AssistanceInformationNR;
NOTE 4:	It is up to UE implementation when and how to trigger configured grant assistance information for NR sidelink communication or NR sidelink positioning.
The UE shall:
1>	if the procedure was triggered to provide configured grant assistance information for NR sidelink communication by an NR RRCReconfiguration message that was embedded within an E-UTRA RRCConnectionReconfiguration:
2>	submit the UEAssistanceInformation to lower layers via SRB1, embedded in E-UTRA RRC message ULInformationTransferIRAT as specified in TS 36.331 [10], clause 5.6.28;
1>	else if the procedure was triggered to provide UE preference for SCG deactivation or to indicate that the UE with a deactivate SCG has uplink data to send on a DRB for which there is no MCG RLC bearer:
2>	submit the UEAssistanceInformation via SRB1 to lower layers for transmission;
1>	else if the UE is in (NG)EN-DC:
2>	if SRB3 is configured and the SCG is not deactivated:
3>	submit the UEAssistanceInformation message via SRB3 to lower layers for transmission;
2>	else:
3>	submit the UEAssistanceInformation message via the E-UTRA MCG embedded in E-UTRA RRC message ULInformationTransferMRDC as specified in TS 36.331 [10].
1>	else if the UE is in NR-DC:
2>	if the UE assistance configuration that triggered this UE assistance information is associated with the SCG:
3>	if SRB3 is configured and the SCG is not deactivated:
4>	submit the UEAssistanceInformation message via SRB3 to lower layers for transmission;
3>	else:
4>	submit the UEAssistanceInformation message via the NR MCG embedded in NR RRC message ULInformationTransferMRDC as specified in 5.7.2a.3;
2>	else:
3>	submit the UEAssistanceInformation message via SRB1 to lower layers for transmission;
1>	else:
2>	submit the UEAssistanceInformation message to lower layers for transmission.
5.7.4.3a	Setting the contents of OverheatingAssistance IE
The UE shall set the contents of OverheatingAssistance IE if initiated to provide overheating assistance indication for SCG in (NG)EN-DC according to clause 5.6.10.3 as specified in TS 36.331 [10]:
1>	if the UE prefers to temporarily reduce the number of maximum secondary component carriers for SCG:
2>	include reducedMaxCCs in the OverheatingAssistance IE;
2>	set reducedCCsDL to the number of maximum PSCell and SCells of the SCG the UE prefers to be temporarily configured in downlink;
2>	set reducedCCsUL to the number of maximum PSCell and SCells of the SCG the UE prefers to be temporarily configured in uplink;
1>	if the UE prefers to temporarily reduce maximum aggregated bandwidth of FR1 for SCG:
2>	include reducedMaxBW-FR1 in the OverheatingAssistance IE;
2>	set reducedBW-FR1-DL to the maximum aggregated bandwidth the UE prefers to be temporarily configured across all downlink carriers of FR1 of the SCG;
2>	set reducedBW-FR1-UL to the maximum aggregated bandwidth the UE prefers to be temporarily configured across all uplink carriers of FR1 of the SCG;
1>	if the UE prefers to temporarily reduce maximum aggregated bandwidth of FR2-1 for SCG:
2>	include reducedMaxBW-FR2 in the OverheatingAssistance IE;
2>	set reducedBW-FR2-DL to the maximum aggregated bandwidth the UE prefers to be temporarily configured across all downlink carriers of FR2-1 of the SCG;
2>	set reducedBW-FR2-UL to the maximum aggregated bandwidth the UE prefers to be temporarily configured across all uplink carriers of FR2-1 of the SCG;
1>	if the UE prefers to temporarily reduce maximum aggregated bandwidth of FR2-2 for SCG:
2>	include reducedMaxBW-FR2-2 in the OverheatingAssistance IE;
2>	set reducedBW-FR2-2-DL to the maximum aggregated bandwidth the UE prefers to be temporarily configured across all downlink carriers of FR2-2 of the SCG;
2>	set reducedBW-FR2-2-UL to the maximum aggregated bandwidth the UE prefers to be temporarily configured across all uplink carriers of FR2-2 of the SCG;
1>	if the UE prefers to temporarily reduce the number of maximum MIMO layers of each serving cell operating on FR1 for SCG:
2>	include reducedMaxMIMO-LayersFR1 in the OverheatingAssistance IE;
2>	set reducedMIMO-LayersFR1-DL to the number of maximum MIMO layers of each serving cell operating on FR1 of the SCG the UE prefers to be temporarily configured in downlink;
2>	set reducedMIMO-LayersFR1-UL to the number of maximum MIMO layers of each serving cell operating on FR1 of the SCG the UE prefers to be temporarily configured in uplink;
1>	if the UE prefers to temporarily reduce the number of maximum MIMO layers of each serving cell operating on FR2-1 for SCG:
2>	include reducedMaxMIMO-LayersFR2 in the OverheatingAssistance IE;
2>	set reducedMIMO-LayersFR2-DL to the number of maximum MIMO layers of each serving cell operating on FR2-1 of the SCG the UE prefers to be temporarily configured in downlink;
2>	set reducedMIMO-LayersFR2-UL to the number of maximum MIMO layers of each serving cell operating on FR2-1 of the SCG the UE prefers to be temporarily configured in uplink;
1>	if the UE prefers to temporarily reduce the number of maximum MIMO layers of each serving cell operating on FR2-2 for SCG:
2>	include reducedMaxMIMO-LayersFR2-2 in the OverheatingAssistance IE;
2>	set reducedMIMO-LayersFR2-2-DL to the number of maximum MIMO layers of each serving cell operating on FR2-2 of the SCG the UE prefers to be temporarily configured in downlink;
2>	set reducedMIMO-LayersFR2-2-UL to the number of maximum MIMO layers of each serving cell operating on FR2-2 of the SCG the UE prefers to be temporarily configured in uplink;
5.7.4.4	Relaxed measurement criterion for a stationary (e)RedCap UE
The relaxed measurement criterion for a stationary UE is met when:
-	(SS-RSRPRefStationaryConnected – SS-RSRP) < SSearchDeltaP-StationaryConnected,
Where:
-	SS-RSRP = current L3 RSRP measurement of the PCell based on SSB (dB).
-	SS-RSRPRefStationaryConnected = reference SS-RSRP value of the PCell (dB), set as follows:
-	at the end of RRC reconfiguration procedure as specified in 5.3.5.3, when rrm-MeasRelaxationReportingConfig is included in the RRCReconfiguration message; or
-	after MAC successfully completes a Random Access procedure after applying a reconfigurationWithSync in spCellConfig while stationary criterion is configured; or
-	upon an indication from lower layers that a RACH-less handover or an LTM cell switch is successfully completed for the CG while stationary criterion is configured, or
-	if (SS-RSRP – SS-RSRPRefStationaryConnected) > 0; or
-	if the relaxed measurement criterion has not been met for TSearchDeltaP-StationaryConnected:
-	UE shall set the value of SS-RSRPRefStationaryConnected to the current SS-RSRP value of the serving cell.
5.7.4a	Void
5.7.5	Failure information
5.7.5.1	General

Figure 5.7.5.1-1: Failure information
The purpose of this procedure is to inform the network about a failure detected by the UE.
5.7.5.2	Initiation
A UE initiates the procedure when there is a need inform the network about a failure detected by the UE. In particular, the UE initiates the procedure when the following condition is met:
1>	upon detecting failure for an RLC bearer, in accordance with 5.3.10.3;
1>	upon detecting DAPS handover failure, in accordance with 5.3.5.8.3;
Upon initiating the procedure, the UE shall:
1>	initiate transmission of the FailureInformation message as specified in 5.7.5.3;
5.7.5.3	Actions related to transmission of FailureInformation message
The UE shall:
1>	if initiated to provide RLC failure information, set FailureInfoRLC-Bearer as follows:
2>	set logicalChannelIdentity to the logical channel identity of the failing RLC bearer;
2>	set cellGroupId to the cell group identity of the failing RLC bearer;
2>	set the failureType as rlc-failure;
1>	if initiated to provide DAPS failure information, set FailureInfoDAPS as follows:
2>	set the failureType as daps-failure;
1>	if used to inform the network about a failure for an MCG RLC bearer or DAPS failure information:
2>	submit the FailureInformation message to lower layers for transmission via SRB1;
1>	else if used to inform the network about a failure for an SCG RLC bearer:
2>	if SRB3 is configured;
3>	submit the FailureInformation message to lower layers for transmission via SRB3;
2>	else;
3>	if the UE is in (NG)EN-DC:
4>	submit the FailureInformation message via E-UTRA SRB1 embedded in E-UTRA RRC message ULInformationTransferMRDC as specified in TS 36.331 [10].
3>	else if the UE is in NR-DC:
4>	submit the FailureInformation message via SRB1 embedded in NR RRC message ULInformationTransferMRDC as specified in clause 5.7.2a.3.
5.7.6	DL message segment transfer
5.7.6.1	General

Figure 5.7.6.1-1: DL message segment transfer
The purpose of this procedure is to transfer segments of DL DCCH messages from the network to the UE.
NOTE:	The segmentation of DL DCCH message is only applicable to RRCReconfiguration and RRCResume messages in this release.
5.7.6.2	Initiation
The network initiates the DL Dedicated Message Segment transfer procedure whenever the encoded RRC message PDU exceeds the maximum PDCP SDU size. The network initiates the DL Dedicated Message Segment transfer procedure by sending the DLDedicatedMessageSegment message.
5.7.6.3	Reception of DLDedicatedMessageSegment by the UE
Upon receiving DLDedicatedMessageSegment message, the UE shall:
1>	store the segment included in rrc-MessageSegmentContainer;
1>	if all segments of the message have been received:
2>	assemble the message from the received segments and process the message according to 5.3.5.3 for the RRCReconfiguration message or 5.3.13.4 for the RRCResume message;
2>	discard all segments.
5.7.7	UL message segment transfer
5.7.7.1	General

Figure 5.7.7.1-1: UL message segment transfer
The purpose of this procedure is to transfer segments of UL DCCH messages from UE to a NG-RAN in RRC_CONNECTED.
NOTE:	The segmentation of UL DCCH message is only applicable to UECapabilityInformation and MeasurementReportAppLayer in this release.
5.7.7.2	Initiation
A UE capable of UL RRC message segmentation in RRC_CONNECTED will initiate the procedure when the following conditions are met:
1>	if the RRC message segmentation is enabled based on the field rrc-SegAllowed, rrc-MaxCapaSegAllowed, rrc-SegAllowedSRB4 or rrc-SegAllowedSRB5 received, and
1>	if the encoded RRC message is larger than the maximum supported size of a PDCP SDU specified in TS 38.323 [5];
Upon initiating the procedure, the UE shall:
1>	initiate transmission of the ULDedicatedMessageSegment message as specified in 5.7.7.3;
5.7.7.3	Actions related to transmission of ULDedicatedMessageSegment message
The UE shall segment the encoded RRC PDU based on the maximum supported size of a PDCP SDU specified in TS 38.323 [5] and the maximum number of UL segments according to rrc-SegAllowed or rrc-MaxCapaSegAllowed (for segmentation of UECapabilityInformation) and rrc-SegAllowedSRB4 or rrc-SegAllowedSRB5 (for segmentation of MeasurementReportAppLayer), if received. UE shall minimize the number of segments and set the contents of the ULDedicatedMessageSegment messages as follows:
1>	For each new UL DCCH message, set the segmentNumber to 0 for the first message segment and increment the segmentNumber for each subsequent RRC message segment;
1>	set rrc-MessageSegmentContainer to include the segment of the UL DCCH message corresponding to the segmentNumber;
1>	if the segment included in the rrc-MessageSegmentContainer is the last segment of the UL DCCH message:
2>	set the rrc-MessageSegmentType to lastSegment;
1>	else:
2>	set the rrc-MessageSegmentType to notLastSegment;
1>	submit all the ULDedicatedMessageSegment messages generated for the segmented RRC message to lower layers for transmission in ascending order based on the segmentNumber, upon which the procedure ends.
5.7.8	Idle/inactive Measurements
5.7.8.1	General
This procedure specifies the measurements to be performed and stored by a UE in RRC_IDLE and RRC_INACTIVE when it has an idle/inactive measurement configuration.
5.7.8.1a	Measurement configuration
The purpose of this procedure is to update the idle/inactive measurement configuration.
The UE initiates this procedure while T331 is running and SDT procedure is not ongoing and one of the following conditions is met:
1>	upon selecting a cell when entering RRC_IDLE or RRC-INACTIVE from RRC_CONNECTED or RRC_INACTIVE; or
1>	upon update of system information (SIB4, or SIB11), e.g. due to intra-RAT cell (re)selection;
While in RRC_IDLE or RRC_INACTIVE, and T331 is running, the UE shall:
1>	if VarMeasIdleConfig includes neither a measIdleCarrierListEUTRA nor a measIdleCarrierListNR received from the RRCRelease message:
2>	if the UE supports idleInactiveEUTRA-MeasReport:
3>	if the SIB11 includes the measIdleConfigSIB and contains measIdleCarrierListEUTRA:
4>	store or replace the measIdleCarrierListEUTRA of measIdleConfigSIB of SIB11 within VarMeasIdleConfig;
3>	else:
4>	remove the measIdleCarrierListEUTRA in VarMeasIdleConfig, if stored;
2>	if the UE supports idleInactiveNR-MeasReport:
3>	if SIB11 includes the measIdleConfigSIB and contains measIdleCarrierListNR:
4>	store or replace the measIdleCarrierListNR of measIdleConfigSIB of SIB11 within VarMeasIdleConfig;
3>	else:
4>	remove the measIdleCarrierListNR in VarMeasIdleConfig, if stored;
1>	if VarEnhMeasIdleConfig does not include measIdleValidityDuration received from the RRCRelease message:
2>	if the UE supports measValidationReportEMR:
3>	if SIB11 includes the measIdleConfigSIB and contains measIdleValidityDuration:
4>	store or replace the measIdleValidityDuration of measIdleConfigSIB of SIB11 within VarEnhMeasIdleConfig;
3>	else:
4>	remove the measIdleValidityDuration in VarEnhMeasIdleConfig, if stored;
1>	for each entry in the measIdleCarrierListNR within VarMeasIdleConfig that does not contain an ssb-MeasConfig received from the RRCRelease message:
2>	if there is an entry in measIdleCarrierListNR in measIdleConfigSIB of SIB11 that has the same carrier frequency and subcarrier spacing as the entry in the measIdleCarrierListNR within VarMeasIdleConfig and that contains ssb-MeasConfig:
3>	delete the ssb-MeasConfig of the corresponding entry in the measIdleCarrierListNR within VarMeasIdleConfig;
3>	store the SSB measurement configuration from SIB11 into nrofSS-BlocksToAverage, absThreshSS-BlocksConsolidation, smtc, ssb-ToMeasure, deriveSSB-IndexFromCell, and ss-RSSI-Measurement within ssb-MeasConfig of the corresponding entry in the measIdleCarrierListNR within VarMeasIdleConfig;
2>	else if there is an entry in interFreqCarrierFreqList of SIB4 with the same carrier frequency and subcarrier spacing as the entry in measIdleCarrierListNR within VarMeasIdleConfig:
3>	delete the ssb-MeasConfig of the corresponding entry in the measIdleCarrierListNR within VarMeasIdleConfig;
3>	store the SSB measurement configuration from SIB4 into nrofSS-BlocksToAverage, absThreshSS-BlocksConsolidation, smtc, ssb-ToMeasure, deriveSSB-IndexFromCell, and ss-RSSI-Measurement within ssb-MeasConfig of the corresponding entry in the measIdleCarrierListNR within VarMeasIdleConfig;
2>	else:
3>	remove the ssb-MeasConfig of the corresponding entry in the measIdleCarrierListNR within VarMeasIdleConfig, if stored;
1>	perform measurements according to 5.7.8.2a.
5.7.8.1b	Measurement configuration (reselection measurements)
The purpose of this procedure is to update the reselection measurement configuration.
The UE initiates this procedure while SDT procedure is not ongoing and one of the following conditions is met:
1>	upon selecting a cell when entering RRC_IDLE or RRC_INACTIVE from RRC_CONNECTED or RRC_INACTIVE; or
1>	upon update of system information (SIB11), e.g., due to intra-RAT cell (re)selection;
While in RRC_IDLE or RRC_INACTIVE, the UE shall:
1>	if VarMeasReselectionConfig does not include measReselectionCarrierListNR received from the RRCRelease message:
2>	if the UE supports reselection measurement reporting:
3>	if SIB11 includes the measIdleConfigSIB and contains measReselectionCarrierListNR:
4>	store or replace the measReselectionCarrierListNR of measIdleConfigSIB of SIB11 within VarMeasReselectionConfig;
3>	else:
4>	remove the measReselectionCarrierListNR in VarMeasReselectionConfig, if stored;
1>	if VarMeasReselectionConfig does not include measReselectionValidityDuration received from the RRCRelease message:
2>	if the UE supports reselection measurement reporting:
3>	if SIB11 includes the measIdleConfigSIB and contains measReselectionValidityDuration:
4>	store or replace the measReselectionValidityDuration of measIdleConfigSIB of SIB11 within VarMeasReselectionConfig;
3>	else:
4>	remove the measReselectionValidityDuration in VarMeasReselectionConfig, if stored.
5.7.8.2	Void
5.7.8.2a	Performing measurements
When performing measurements on NR carriers according to this clause, the UE shall derive the cell quality as specified in 5.5.3.3 and consider the beam quality to be the value of the measurement results of the concerned beam, where each result is averaged as described in TS 38.215 [9].
While in RRC_IDLE or RRC_INACTIVE, and T331 is running and SDT procedure is not ongoing, the UE shall:
1>	perform the measurements in accordance with the following:
2>	if the VarMeasIdleConfig includes the measIdleCarrierListEUTRA and the SIB1 contains idleModeMeasurementsEUTRA:
3>	for each entry in measIdleCarrierListEUTRA within VarMeasIdleConfig:
4>	if UE supports NE-DC between the serving carrier and the carrier frequency indicated by carrierFreqEUTRA within the corresponding entry:
5>	perform measurements in the carrier frequency and bandwidth indicated by carrierFreqEUTRA and allowedMeasBandwidth within the corresponding entry;
5>	if the reportQuantitiesEUTRA is set to rsrq:
6>	consider RSRQ as the sorting quantity;
5>	else:
6>	consider RSRP as the sorting quantity;
5>	if the measCellListEUTRA is included:
6>	consider cells identified by each entry within the measCellListEUTRA to be applicable for idle/inactive mode measurement reporting;
5>	else:
6>	consider up to maxCellMeasIdle strongest identified cells, according to the sorting quantity, to be applicable for idle/inactive measurement reporting;
5>	for all cells applicable for idle/inactive measurement reporting, derive measurement results for the measurement quantities indicated by reportQuantitiesEUTRA;
5>	store the derived measurement results as indicated by reportQuantitiesEUTRA within the measReportIdleEUTRA in VarMeasIdleReport in decreasing order of the sorting quantity, i.e. the best cell is included first, as follows:
6>	if qualityThresholdEUTRA is configured:
7>	include the measurement results from the cells applicable for idle/inactive measurement reporting whose RSRP/RSRQ measurement results are above the value(s) provided in qualityThresholdEUTRA;
6>	else:
7>	include the measurement results from all cells applicable for idle/inactive measurement reporting;
2>	if the VarMeasIdleConfig includes the measIdleCarrierListNR and the SIB1 contains idleModeMeasurementsNR:
3>	for each entry in measIdleCarrierListNR within VarMeasIdleConfig that contains ssb-MeasConfig:
4>	if UE supports carrier aggregation or NR-DC between serving carrier and the carrier frequency and subcarrier spacing indicated by carrierFreq and ssbSubCarrierSpacing within the corresponding entry:
5>	perform measurements in the carrier frequency and subcarrier spacing indicated by carrierFreq and ssbSubCarrierSpacing within the corresponding entry;
5>	if the reportQuantities is set to rsrq:
6>	consider RSRQ as the cell sorting quantity;
5>	else:
6>	consider RSRP as the cell sorting quantity;
5>	if the measCellListNR is included:
6>	consider cells identified by each entry within the measCellListNR to be applicable for idle/inactive measurement reporting;
5>	else:
6>	consider up to maxCellMeasIdle strongest identified cells, according to the sorting quantity, to be applicable for idle/inactive measurement reporting;
5>	for all cells applicable for idle/inactive measurement reporting, derive cell measurement results for the measurement quantities indicated by reportQuantities;
5>	store the derived cell measurement results as indicated by reportQuantities for cells applicable for idle/inactive measurement reporting within measResultsPerCarrierListIdleNR in the measReportIdleNR in VarMeasIdleReport in decreasing order of the cell sorting quantity, i.e. the best cell is included first, as follows:
6>	if qualityThreshold is configured:
7>	include the measurement results from the cells applicable for idle/inactive measurement reporting whose RSRP/RSRQ measurement results are above the value(s) provided in qualityThreshold;
6>	else:
7>	include the measurement results from all cells applicable for idle/inactive measurement reporting;
5>	if beamMeasConfigIdle is included in the associated entry in measIdleCarrierListNR and if UE supports idleInactiveNR-MeasBeamReport for the FR of the carrier frequency indicated by carrierFreq within the associated entry, for each cell in the measurement results:
6>	derive beam measurements based on SS/PBCH block for each measurement quantity indicated in reportQuantityRS-Indexes, as described in TS 38.215 [9];
6>	if the reportQuantityRS-Indexes is set to rsrq:
7>	consider RSRQ as the beam sorting quantity;
6>	else:
7>	consider RSRP as the beam sorting quantity;
6>	set resultsSSB-Indexes to include up to maxNrofRS-IndexesToReport SS/PBCH block indexes in order of decreasing beam sorting quantity as follows:
7>	include the index associated to the best beam for the sorting quantity and if absThreshSS-BlocksConsolidation is included, the remaining beams whose sorting quantity is above absThreshSS-BlocksConsolidation;
6>	if the includeBeamMeasurements is set to true:
7>	include the beam measurement results as indicated by reportQuantityRS-Indexes;
2>	if, as a result of the procedure in this clause, the UE performs measurements in one or more carrier frequency indicated by measIdleCarrierListNR or measIdleCarrierListEUTRA:
3>	store the cell measurement results for RSRP and RSRQ for the serving cell within measResultServingCell in the measReportIdleNR in VarMeasIdleReport.
3>	if the VarMeasIdleConfig includes the measIdleCarrierListNR and it contains an entry with carrierFreq set to the value of the serving frequency:
4>	if beamMeasConfigIdle is included in that entry, and if the UE supports idleInactiveNR- MeasBeamReport for the FR of the serving cell:
5>	derive beam measurements based on SS/PBCH block for each measurement quantity indicated in reportQuantityRS-Indexes, as described in TS 38.215 [9];
5>	if the reportQuantityRS-Indexes is set to rsrq:
6>	consider RSRQ as the beam sorting quantity;
5>	else:
6>	consider RSRP as the beam sorting quantity;
5>	set resultsSSB-Indexes to include up to maxNrofRS-IndexesToReport SS/PBCH block indexes in order of decreasing beam sorting quantity as follows:
6>	include the index associated to the best beam for the sorting quantity and if absThreshSS-BlocksConsolidation is included in SIB2 of serving cell, the remaining beams whose sorting quantity is above absThreshSS-BlocksConsolidation;
5>	if the includeBeamMeasurements is set to true:
6>	include the beam measurement results as indicated by reportQuantityRS-Indexes;
NOTE 1:	How the UE performs idle/inactive measurements is up to UE implementation as long as the requirements in TS 38.133 [14] are met for measurement reporting.
NOTE 2:	The UE is not required to perform idle/inactive measurements on a given carrier if the SSB configuration of that carrier provided via dedicated signaling is different from the SSB configuration broadcasted in the serving cell, if any.
NOTE 3:	How the UE prioritizes which frequencies to measure or report (in case it is configured with more frequencies than it can measure or report) is left to UE implementation.
NOTE 4:	When idleModeMeasVoiceFallback is included in SIB5, UE may decide to measure and report idle/inactive measurements for EUTRA carrier frequencies included in SIB5 even if it does not support NE-DC between the serving carrier and the EUTRA carrier frequencies.
5.7.8.3	T331 expiry or stop
The UE shall:
1>	if T331 expires or is stopped:
2>	release the VarMeasIdleConfig.
NOTE:	It is up to UE implementation whether to continue idle/inactive measurements according to SIB11 and SIB4 configurations or according to E-UTRA SIB5 and E-UTRA SIB24 configurations as specified in TS 36.331 [10] upon inter-RAT cell reselection to E-UTRA, after T331 has expired or stopped.
5.7.8.4	Cell re-selection or cell selection while T331 is running
The UE shall:
1>	if intra-RAT cell selection or reselection occurs while T331 is running:
2>	if validityAreaList is configured in VarMeasIdleConfig:
3>	if the serving frequency does not match with the carrierFreq of an entry in the validityAreaList; or
3>	if the serving frequency matches with the carrierFreq of an entry in the validityAreaList, the validityCellList is included in that entry, and the physical cell identity of the serving cell does not match with any entry in validityCellList:
4>	stop timer T331;
4>	perform the actions as specified in 5.7.8.3, upon which the procedure ends.
1>	else if inter-RAT cell selection or reselection occurs while T331 is running:
2>	stop timer T331;
2>	perform the actions as specified in 5.7.8.3;
5.7.9	Mobility history information
5.7.9.1	General
This procedure specifies how the mobility history information is stored by the UE, covering RRC_IDLE, RRC_INACTIVE and RRC_CONNECTED and released by the UE upon deregistration as specified in TS 23.502 [43].
5.7.9.2	Initiation
If the UE supports storage of mobility history information, the UE shall:
1>	If the UE supports PSCell mobility history information and upon addition of a PSCell:
2>	include an entry in visitedPSCellInfoList in variable VarMobilityHistoryReport possibly after performing the following, if necessary:
3>	if visitedPSCellInfoListReport is available in the visitedCellInfoList in variable VarMobilityHistoryReport:
4>	for the oldest PCell entry in visitedCellInfoList including visitedPSCellInfoListReport;
5>	remove the oldest entry in the visitedPSCellInfoListReport;
3>	else:
4>	remove the oldest entry in visitedPSCellInfoList in variable VarMobilityHistoryReport;
2>	for the included entry:
3>	set the field timeSpent of the entry according to following:
4>	if this is the first PSCell entry for the current PCell since entering the current PCell in RRC_CONNECTED:
5>	include the entry as the time spent with no PSCell since entering the current PCell in RRC_CONNECTED;
4>	else:
5>	include the time spent with no PSCell since last PSCell release since entering the current PCell in RRC_CONNECTED;
1>	If the UE supports PSCell mobility history information and upon change, or release of a PSCell while being connected to the current PCell, or upon release of a PSCell while entering 'camped normally' state or 'any cell selection' state or 'camped on any cell' state:
2>	include an entry in visitedPSCellInfoList of the variable VarMobilityHistoryReport possibly after performing the following, if necessary:
3>	if visitedPSCellInfoListReport is available in the visitedCellInfoList in variable VarMobilityHistoryReport:
4>	for the oldest PCell entry in visitedCellInfoList including visitedPSCellInfoListReport;
5>	remove the oldest entry in the visitedPSCellInfoListReport;
3>	else:
4>	remove the oldest entry in visitedPSCellInfoList in variable VarMobilityHistoryReport;
2>	for the included entry:
3>	if the global cell identity of the previous PSCell is available:
4>	include the global cell identity of that cell in the field visitedCellId of the entry;
3>	else:
4>	include the physical cell identity and carrier frequency of that cell in the field visitedCellId of the entry;
3>	if the PSCell is changed or released while being connected to the current PCell, or if the PSCell is released while entering 'camped normally' state in the same serving cell which was previously the PCell:
4>	set the field timeSpent of the entry as the time spent in the previous PSCell while being connected to the current PCell/serving cell;
3>	if the PSCell is released while entering 'any cell selection' state or 'camped on any cell' state from a suitable cell in RRC_CONNECTED state in NR or LTE, or if the PSCell is released while entering 'camped normally' state while previously in RRC_CONNECTED state in a PCell different from the current serving cell:
4>	set the field timeSpent of the entry as the time spent in the previous PSCell while being connected to the previous PCell;
1>	Upon change of suitable cell, consisting of PCell in RRC_CONNECTED (for NR or E-UTRA cell) or serving cell in RRC_INACTIVE (for NR cell) or in RRC_IDLE (for NR or E-UTRA cell), to another NR or E-UTRA cell, or when entering 'any cell selection' state from 'camped normally' state in NR or LTE or when entering 'any cell selection' state or 'camped on any cell' state from a suitable cell in RRC_CONNECTED state in NR or LTE:
NOTE:	Change of suitable cell encompasses also simultaneous change of serving cell and RRC state change.
2>	include an entry in visitedCellInfoList of the variable VarMobilityHistoryReport possibly after removing the oldest entry, if necessary, according to following:
3>	if the global cell identity of the previous PCell/serving cell is available:
4>	include the global cell identity of that cell in the field visitedCellId of the entry;
3>	else:
4>	include the physical cell identity and carrier frequency of that cell in the field visitedCellId of the entry;
3>	set the field timeSpent of the entry as the time spent in the previous PCell/serving cell;
3>	if the UE supports PSCell mobility history information and if the UE continues to be connected to the same PSCell during the change of the PCell in RRC_CONNECTED; or
3>	if the UE supports PSCell mobility history information and if the UE changes PSCell at the same time as the change of the PCell in RRC_CONNECTED; or
3>	if the UE supports PSCell mobility history information and if the PSCell is released at the same time as the change of the PCell in RRC_CONNECTED:
4>	include an entry in visitedPSCellInfoList of the variable VarMobilityHistoryReport possibly after performing the following, if necessary:
5>	if visitedPSCellInfoListReport is available in the visitedCellInfoList in variable VarMobilityHistoryReport:
6>	for the oldest PCell entry in visitedCellInfoList including visitedPSCellInfoListReport;
7>	remove the oldest entry in the visitedPSCellInfoListReport;
5>	else:
6>	remove the oldest entry in visitedPSCellInfoList in variable VarMobilityHistoryReport;
4>	for the included entry:
5>	if the global cell identity of the PSCell (in case the UE continues to be connected to the same PSCell) or the previous PSCell (in case the UE changes PSCell, or in case PSCell is released) is available:
6>	include the global cell identity of that cell in the field visitedCellId of the entry;
5>	else:
6>	include the physical cell identity and carrier frequency of that cell in the field visitedCellId of the entry;
5>	set the field timeSpent of the entry as the time spent in the PSCell, while being connected to previous PCell;
3>	if the UE supports PSCell mobility history information and if the UE was not configured with a PSCell at the time of change of PCell in RRC_CONNECTED; or
3>	if the UE supports PSCell mobility history information and if the UE was not configured with a PSCell at the time of entering 'camped normally' state while previously in RRC_CONNECTED state in a PCell different from the current serving cell; or
3>	if the UE supports PSCell mobility history information and if the UE was not configured with a PSCell at the time of entering 'any cell selection' state or 'camped on any cell' state from a suitable cell in RRC_CONNECTED state in NR or LTE:
4>	include an entry in visitedPSCellInfoList in variable VarMobilityHistoryReport after performing the following, if necessary;
5>	if visitedPSCellInfoListReport is available in the visitedCellInfoList in variable VarMobilityHistoryReport:
6>	for the oldest PCell entry in visitedCellInfoList including visitedPSCellInfoListReport;
7>	remove the oldest entry in the visitedPSCellInfoListReport;
5>	else:
6>	remove the oldest entry in visitedPSCellInfoList in variable VarMobilityHistoryReport;
4>	for the included entry:
5>	set the field timeSpent of the entry as the time without PSCell according to the following:
6>	if the UE experienced a PSCell release since entering the previous PCell in RRC_CONNECTED:
7>	include the time spent with no PSCell since last PSCell release since entering the previous PCell in RRC_CONNECTED;
6>	else:
7>	include the time spent with no PSCell since entering the previous PCell in RRC_CONNECTED;
3>	if the UE supports PSCell mobility history information and if visitedPSCellInfoList exists in VarMobilityHistoryReport:
4>	include visitedPSCellInfoList in VarMobilityHistoryReport in the visitedPSCellInfoListReport within the entry of the visitedCellInfoList associated to the latest PCell entry;
4>	remove visitedPSCellInfoList from the variable VarMobilityHistoryReport;
1>	if the UE supports PSCell mobility history information and upon entering 'camped normally' state in NR (in RRC_IDLE or RRC_INACTIVE) or E-UTRA (in RRC_IDLE) while previously in RRC_CONNECTED state NR or LTE in the same serving cell which was previously the PCell while not connected to a PSCell:
2>	include an entry in visitedPSCellInfoList in variable VarMobilityHistoryReport after performing the following, if necessary;
3>	if visitedPSCellInfoListReport is available in the visitedCellInfoList in variable VarMobilityHistoryReport:
4>	for the oldest PCell entry in visitedCellInfoList including visitedPSCellInfoListReport;
5>	remove the oldest entry in the visitedPSCellInfoListReport;
3>	else:
4>	remove the oldest entry in visitedPSCellInfoList in variable VarMobilityHistoryReport;
2>	for the included entry:
3>	set the field timeSpent of the entry as the time without PSCell according to the following:
4>	if the UE experienced a PSCell release since entering the current serving cell in RRC_CONNECTED:
5>	include the time spent with no PSCell since last PSCell release after entering the current serving cell in RRC_CONNECTED;
4>	else:
5>	include the time spent with no PSCell since entering the current serving cell in RRC_CONNECTED;
1>	upon entering 'camped normally' state in NR (in RRC_IDLE or RRC_INACTIVE) or E-UTRA (in RRC_IDLE) while previously in 'any cell selection' state or 'camped on any cell' state in NR or LTE:
2>	include an entry in visitedCellInfoList in variable VarMobilityHistoryReport possibly after removing the oldest entry, if necessary, according to following:
3>	set the field timeSpent of the entry as the time spent in 'any cell selection' state and/or 'camped on any cell' state in NR or LTE.
5.7.9.3	Release of Mobility History Information
If the UE supports storage of mobility history information, the UE shall:
1>	if stored, discard the mobility history information, i.e. release the UE variable VarMobilityHistoryReport upon deregistration from the network as specified in TS 23.502 [43].
5.7.10	UE Information
5.7.10.1	General

Figure 5.7.10.1-1: UE information procedure
The UE information procedure is used by the network to request the UE to report information.
5.7.10.2	Initiation
The network initiates the procedure by sending the UEInformationRequest message. The network should initiate this procedure only after successful security activation.
5.7.10.3	Reception of the UEInformationRequest message
Upon receiving the UEInformationRequest message, the UE shall, only after successful security activation:
1>	if the idleModeMeasurementReq is included in the UEInformationRequest and the UE has stored VarMeasIdleReport that contains measurement information concerning cells other than the PCell:
2>	if validatedMeasurementsReq is included in the UEInformationRequest and measIdleValidityDuration is included in VarEnhMeasIdleConfig;
3>	set the measResultIdleEUTRA in the UEInformationResponse message to the value of measReportIdleEUTRA in the VarMeasIdleReport for any valid measurement results, if available, and set validityStatus to the value of measIdleValidityDuration in VarEnhMeasIdleConfig for each reported measurement;
3>	set the measResultIdleNR in the UEInformationResponse message to the value of measReportIdleNR in the VarMeasIdleReport for any valid measurement results, if available, and set validityStatus to the value of measIdleValidityDuration in VarEnhMeasIdleConfig for each reported measurement;
3>	discard the VarMeasIdleReport upon successful delivery of the UEInformationResponse message confirmed by lower layers;
3>	remove the measIdleValidityDuration in VarEnhMeasIdleConfig;
2>	else:
3>	set the measResultIdleEUTRA in the UEInformationResponse message to the value of measReportIdleEUTRA in the VarMeasIdleReport, if available;
3>	set the measResultIdleNR in the UEInformationResponse message to the value of measReportIdleNR in the VarMeasIdleReport, if available;
3>	discard the VarMeasIdleReport upon successful delivery of the UEInformationResponse message confirmed by lower layers;
3>	remove the measIdleValidityDuration in VarEnhMeasIdleConfig, if stored;
1>	if the reselectionMeasurementReq is included in the UEInformationRequest:
2>	if validatedMeasurementsReq is included in the UEInformationRequest and measReselectionValidityDuration is included in VarMeasReselectionConfig;
3>	if measReselectionCarrierListNR is present in VarMeasReselectionConfig:
4>	set the measResultReselectionNR in the UEInformationResponse message the valid NR measurement results, if available for any frequency listed in measReselectionCarrierListNR in VarMeasReselectionConfig and set validityStatus to the value of measIdleValidityDuration in VarMeasReselectionConfig for each reported measurement;
3> else:
4>	set the measResultReselectionNR in the UEInformationResponse message to any valid NR measurement results, if available, and set validityStatus to the value of measIdleValidityDuration in VarMeasReselectionConfig;
2>	else:
3>	if measReselectionCarrierListNR is present in VarMeasReselectionConfig:
4>	set the measResultReselectionNR in the UEInformationResponse message the NR measurement results, if available for any frequency listed in measReselectionCarrierListNR in VarMeasReselectionConfig;
3>	else:
4>	set the measResultReselectionNR in the UEInformationResponse message to any NR measurement results, if available;
1>	if the logMeasReportReq is present and if the RPLMN is included in plmn-IdentityList stored in VarLogMeasReport, or if the current registered SNPN identity is included in snpn-ConfigID-List stored in VarLogMeasReport:
2>	if VarLogMeasReport includes one or more logged measurement entries, set the contents of the logMeasReport in the UEInformationResponse message as follows:
3>	include the absoluteTimeStamp and set it to the value of absoluteTimeInfo in the VarLogMeasReport;
3>	include the traceReference and set it to the value of traceReference in the VarLogMeasReport;
3>	include the traceRecordingSessionRef and set it to the value of traceRecordingSessionRef in the VarLogMeasReport;
3>	include the tce-Id and set it to the value of tce-Id in the VarLogMeasReport;
3>	include the logMeasInfoList and set it to include one or more entries from the VarLogMeasReport starting from the entries logged first, and for each entry of the logMeasInfoList that is included, include all information stored in the corresponding logMeasInfoList entry in VarLogMeasReport;
3>	if the VarLogMeasReport includes one or more additional logged measurement entries that are not included in the logMeasInfoList within the UEInformationResponse message:
4>	include the logMeasAvailable;
4>	if bt-LocationInfo is included in locationInfo of one or more of the additional logged measurement entries in VarLogMeasReport that are not included in the logMeasInfoList within the UEInformationResponse message:
5>	include the logMeasAvailableBT;
4>	if wlan-LocationInfo is included in locationInfo of one or more of the additional logged measurement entries in VarLogMeasReport that are not included in the logMeasInfoList within the UEInformationResponse message:
5>	include the logMeasAvailableWLAN;
1>	if ra-ReportReq is set to true and the UE has random access related information available in VarRA-Report and if the RPLMN is included in plmn-IdentityList stored in VarRA-Report; or
1>	if ra-ReportReq is set to true and the UE has random access related information available in VarRA-Report and if the registered SNPN identity is included in snpn-IdentityList stored in VarRA-Report:
2>	set the ra-ReportList in the UEInformationResponse message to the value of ra-ReportList in VarRA-Report;
2>	discard the ra-ReportList from VarRA-Report upon successful delivery of the UEInformationResponse message confirmed by lower layers;
1>	if rlf-ReportReq is set to true:
2>	if the UE has radio link failure information or handover failure information available in VarRLF-Report and if the RPLMN is included in plmn-IdentityList stored in VarRLF-Report; or
2>	if the UE has radio link failure information or handover failure information available in VarRLF-Report and if the current registered SNPN identity is included in snpn-IdentityList stored in VarRLF-Report:
3>	set timeSinceFailure in VarRLF-Report to the time that elapsed since the last radio link failure or handover failure in NR;
3>	set the rlf-Report in the UEInformationResponse message to the value of rlf-Report in VarRLF-Report;
3>	discard the rlf-Report from VarRLF-Report upon successful delivery of the UEInformationResponse message confirmed by lower layers;
2>	else if the UE is capable of cross-RAT RLF reporting as defined in TS 38.306 [26] and has radio link failure information or handover failure information available in VarRLF-Report of TS 36.331 [10] and if the RPLMN is included in plmn-IdentityList stored in VarRLF-Report of TS 36.331 [10]:
3>	set timeSinceFailure in VarRLF-Report of TS 36.331 [10] to the time that elapsed since the last radio link failure or handover failure in EUTRA;
3>	set failedPCellId-EUTRA in the rlf-Report in the UEInformationResponse message to indicate the PCell in which RLF was detected or the source PCell of the failed handover in the VarRLF-Report of TS 36.331 [10];
3>	set the measResult-RLF-Report-EUTRA in the rlf-Report in the UEInformationResponse message to the value of rlf-Report in VarRLF-Report of TS 36.331 [10];
3>	discard the rlf-Report from VarRLF-Report of TS 36.331 [10] upon successful delivery of the UEInformationResponse message confirmed by lower layers;
1>	if connEstFailReportReq is set to true and the UE has connection establishment failure or connection resume failure information in VarConnEstFailReport or VarConnEstFailReportList and if the RPLMN is equal to plmn-Identity stored in VarConnEstFailReport or in at least one of the entries of VarConnEstFailReportList:
1>	if connEstFailReportReq is set to true and if the UE has connection establishment failure information or connection resume failure information available in VarConnEstFailReport or VarConnEstFailReportList and if the registered SNPN identity is equal to snpn-Identity in networkIdentity stored in VarConnEstFailReport or any entry of VarConnEstFailReportList:
2>	set timeSinceFailure in VarConnEstFailReport to the time that elapsed since the last connection establishment failure or connection resume failure in NR;
2>	set the connEstFailReport in the UEInformationResponse message to the value of connEstFailReport in VarConnEstFailReport;
2>	if the UE supports multiple CEF report:
3>	for each connEstFailReport in the connEstFailReportList in VarConnEstFailReportList:
4>	set timeSinceFailure to the time that elapsed since the associated connection establishment failure or connection resume failure in NR;
2>	for each connEstFailReport in the connEstFailReportList in the UEInformationResponse message, set the value to the value of connEstFailReport in VarConnEstFailReport in VarConnEstFailReportList;
2>	discard the connEstFailReport from VarConnEstFailReport and VarConnEstFailReportList upon successful delivery of the UEInformationResponse message confirmed by lower layers;
1>	if the mobilityHistoryReportReq is set to true:
2>	include the mobilityHistoryReport and set it to include visitedCellInfoList from VarMobilityHistoryReport;
2>	include in the mobilityHistoryReport an entry for the current PCell, possibly after removing the oldest entry if required, and set its fields as follows:
3>	set visitedCellId to the global cell identity or the physical cell identity and carrier frequency of the current PCell:
3>	set field timeSpent to the time spent in the current PCell;
3>	if the UE supports PSCell mobility history information and if visitedPSCellInfoList is present in VarMobilityHistoryReport:
4>	for the newest entry of the PCell in the mobilityHistoryReport, include visitedPSCellInfoList from VarMobilityHistoryReport;
4>	if the UE is configured with a PSCell:
5>	for the newest entry of the PCell in the mobilityHistoryReport, include the current PSCell information in the visitedPSCellInfoListReport, possibly after removing the oldest PSCell entry of a PCell in the mobilityHistoryReport, if required, and set its fields as follows:
6>	set visitedCellId to the global cell identity or the physical cell identity and carrier frequency of the current PSCell:
6>	set field timeSpent to the time spent in the current PSCell while being connected to the current PCell;
4>	else:
5>	for the newest entry of the PCell in the mobilityHistoryReport, include a new entry in the visitedPSCellInfoListReport, possibly after removing the oldest PSCell entry of a PCell in the mobilityHistoryReport, if required, and set its fields as follows:
6>	set field timeSpent to the time spent without PSCell in the current PCell since last PSCell release since connected to the current PCell in RRC_CONNECTED;
3>	else if the UE supports PSCell mobility history information:
4>	if the UE is configured with a PSCell:
5>	for the newest entry of the PCell in the mobilityHistoryReport, include the current PSCell information in the visitedPSCellInfoListReport, possibly after removing the oldest PSCell entry of a PCell in the mobilityHistoryReport, if required, and set its fields as follows:
6>	set visitedCellId to the global cell identity or the physical cell identity and carrier frequency of the current PSCell:
6>	set field timeSpent to the time spent in the current PSCell while being connected to the current PCell;
4>	else:
5>	for the newest entry of the PCell in the mobilityHistoryReport, include a new entry in the visitedPSCellInfoListReport, possibly after removing the oldest PSCell entry of a PCell in the mobilityHistoryReport, if required, and set its fields as follows:
6>	set field timeSpent to the time spent without PSCell in the current PCell since connected to the current PCell in RRC_CONNECTED;
1>	if the successHO-ReportReq is set to true and if the UE has successful handover related information available in VarSuccessHO-Report and if the RPLMN is included in the plmn-IdentityList stored in VarSuccessHO-Report; or
1>	if the successHO-ReportReq is set to true and if the UE has successful handover related information available in VarSuccessHO-Report and if the current registered SNPN identity is included in snpn-IdentityList if stored in the VarSuccessHO-Report:
2>	if the successHO-Report in the VarSuccessHO-Report concerns a DAPS handover and if a PDCP PDU has been received from the source cell of the concerned HO and a non-duplicated PDCP PDU has been received from the target cell of the concerned HO:
3>	set upInterruptionTimeAtHO in VarSuccessHO-Report to include the time elapsed between the time of arrival of the last PDCP PDU received from the source cell of the concerned handover and the time of arrival of the first non-duplicate PDCP PDU received from the target cell of the concerned handover, as measured at the time of arrival of the first non-duplicate PDCP PDU received from the target cell;
2>	if the successHO-Report in the VarSuccessHO-Report concerns a mobilityFromNRCommand:
3>	set timeSinceSHR in VarSuccessHO-Report to the time that elapsed since the execution of the MobilityFromNRCommand associated to the successful handover report in the VarSuccessHO-Report;
2>	set the successHO-Report in the UEInformationResponse message to the value of successHO-Report in the VarSuccessHO-Report, if available;
2>	discard the VarSuccessHO-Report upon successful delivery of the UEInformationResponse message confirmed by lower layers;
1>	if the successPSCell-ReportReq is set to true and if the UE has successful PSCell change or addition information available in VarSuccessPSCell-Report and if the RPLMN is included in plmn-IdentityList stored in VarSuccessPSCell-Report; or
1>	if the successPSCell-ReportReq is set to true and if the UE has successful PSCell change or addition information available in VarSuccessPSCell-Report and if the current registered SNPN identity is included in snpn-IdentityList if stored in the VarSuccessPSCell-Report:
2>	set the successPSCell-Report in the UEInformationResponse message to the value of successPSCell-Report in the VarSuccessPSCell-Report;
2>	discard the VarSuccessPSCell-Report upon successful delivery of the UEInformationResponse message confirmed by lower layers;
1>	if the coarseLocationRequest is set to true:
2>	include coarseLocationInfo, if available;
1>	if the flightPathInfoReq is included in the UEInformationRequest and the UE has (updated) flight path information available, set the flightPathInfoReport in the UEInformationResponse message as follows:
2>	include the list of up to maxWayPointNumber waypoints, if any, along the flight path;
2>	if the includeTimeStamp is set to true, for each included waypoint:
3>	if available, set the field timestamp to the time when UE intends to arrive at the waypoint;
1>	if the logMeasReport is included in the UEInformationResponse:
2>	submit the UEInformationResponse message to lower layers for transmission via SRB2;
2>	discard the logged measurement entries included in the logMeasInfoList from VarLogMeasReport upon successful delivery of the UEInformationResponse message confirmed by lower layers;
1>	else:
2>	submit the UEInformationResponse message to lower layers for transmission via SRB1.
5.7.10.4	Actions for the Random Access report determination
Upon successfully performing random-access procedure initialized with 4-step or 2-step RA type, or upon failed or successfully completed on-demand system information acquisition procedure in RRC_IDLE or RRC_INACTIVE state, or upon failed or successfully completed RA-SDT operation as specified in clause 5.3.13.5, the UE shall:
1>	if the RPLMN or the PLMN selected by upper layers (see TS24.501 [23]) from the PLMN(s) included in the plmn-IdentityList in SIB1 is not included in plmn-IdentityList stored in a non-empty VarRA-Report; or
1>	if the registered SNPN identity or the SNPN identity selected by upper layers (see TS24.501 [23]) from the list of SNPN(s) included in the NPN-IdentityInfoList in SIB1is not included in snpn-IdentityList stored in a non-empty VarRA-Report:
2>	clear the information included in VarRA-Report;
1>	if the UE is not in SNPN access mode and if the number of RA-Report entries stored in the ra-ReportList in VarRA-Report is less than maxRAReport:
2>	if the number of PLMN entries in plmn-IdentityList in identityList stored in VarRA-Report is less than maxPLMN; or
2>	if the number of PLMN entries in plmn-IdentityList in identityList stored in VarRA-Report is equal to maxPLMN and the list of EPLMNs is subset of or equal to the plmn-IdentityList stored in VarRA-Report:
3>	append the following contents associated to the random-access procedure as a new entry in the VarRA-Report:
4>	if the list of EPLMNs has been stored by the UE:
5>	set the plmn-IdentityList to include the list of EPLMNs stored by the UE (i.e. includes the RPLMN) without exceeding the limit of maxPLMN;
4>	else:
5>	set the plmn-Identity, in plmn-IdentityList, to the PLMN selected by upper layers (see TS 24.501 [23]) from the PLMN(s) included in the plmn-IdentityInfoList in SIB1;
4>	set the cellId to the global cell identity and the tracking area code, if available, otherwise to the physical cell identity and carrier frequency of the cell in which the corresponding random-access preamble was transmitted;
4>	if the UE supports spCell ID indication:
5>	if the corresponding random-access procedure was performed on an SCell of MCG:
6>	set the spCellId to the global cell identity of the PCell;
5>	if the corresponding random-access procedure was performed on an SCell of SCG:
6>	set the spCellId to the global cell identity of the PSCell, if available, otherwise, set the spCellId to the global cell identity of the PCell;
5>	if the corresponding random-access procedure was performed on PSCell:
6>	if the cellId is not set to the global cell identity of the PSCell, set the spCellId to the global cell identity of the PCell;
4>	if the random-access procedure is initiated for SDT and the SDT transmission was failed as defined in TS 38.300 [2]:
5>	include the sdt-Failed;
4>	set the raPurpose to include the purpose of triggering the random-access procedure;
4>	set the ra-InformationCommon as specified in clause 5.7.10.5.
1>	if the UE is in SNPN access mode and if the number of RA-Report entries stored in the ra-ReportList in VarRA-Report is less than maxRAReport:
2>	if the number of SNPN identity entries in snpn-IdentityList in identityList stored in VarRA-Report is less than maxNPN; or
2>	if the number of SNPN identity entries in snpn-IdentityList in identityList stored in VarRA-Report is equal to maxNPN and the list of equivalent SNPN(s) is subset of or equal to the snpn-IdentityList stored in VarRA-Report:
3>	append the following contents associated to the random-access procedure as a new entry in the VarRA-Report:
4>	if the list of equivalent SNPN(s) has been stored by the UE:
5>	set the snpn-IdentityList to include the list of equivalent SNPN(s) stored by the UE (i.e. includes the registered SNPN identity) without exceeding the limit of maxNPN;
4>	else:
5>	set the snpn-Identity, in snpn-IdentityList, to the SNPN identity selected by upper layers (see TS 24.501 [23]) from the SNPN identities included in the NPN-IdentityInfoList in SIB1;
4>	set the cellId to the global cell identity and the tracking area code, if available, otherwise to the physical cell identity and carrier frequency of the cell in which the corresponding random-access preamble was transmitted;
4>	if the UE supports spCell ID indication:
5>	if the corresponding random-access procedure was performed on an SCell of MCG:
6>	set the spCellId to the global cell identity of the PCell;
5>	if the corresponding random-access procedure was performed on an SCell of SCG:
6>	set the spCellId to the global cell identity of the PSCell, if available, otherwise, set the spCellId to the global cell identity of the PCell;
5>	if the corresponding random-access procedure was performed on PSCell:
6>	if the cellId is not set to the global cell identity of the PSCell, set the spCellId to the global cell identity of the PCell;
4>	if the random-access procedure is initiated for SDT and the SDT transmission was failed as defined in TS 38.300 [2]:
5>	include the sdt-Failed;
4>	set the raPurpose to include the purpose of triggering the random-access procedure;
4>	set the ra-InformationCommon as specified in clause 5.7.10.5.
The UE may discard the random access report information, i.e. release the UE variable VarRA-Report, 48 hours after the last successful random access procedure or the failed or successfully completed on-demand system information acquisition procedure or the failed or successfully completed RA-SDT procedure related information is added to the VarRA-Report.
NOTE 1:	Void.
5.7.10.5	RA information determination
The UE shall, for the last successfully completed or last failed random-access procedure, set the content in ra-InformationCommon as follows:
1>	set the absoluteFrequencyPointA to indicate the absolute frequency of the reference resource block associated to the random-access resources used in the random-access procedure;
1>	set the locationAndBandwidth and subcarrierSpacing associated to the UL BWP of the random-access resources used in the random-access procedure;
1>	if contention based random-access resources are used in the random-access procedure:
2>	set the msgA-RO-FrequencyStart and msgA-RO-FDM and msgA-SubcarrierSpacing associated to the 2 step random- access resources if used in the random-access procedure;
2>	if msgA-SubcarrierSpacing associated to the 2 step random-access resources used in the random-access procedure is available:
3>	set the msgA-SubcarrierSpacing associated to the 2 step random-access resources used in the random-access procedure;
2>	else if only 2 step random-access resources are available in the UL BWP used in the random-access procedure:
3>	set the msgA-SCS-From-prach-ConfigurationIndex to the subcarrier spacing as derived from the msgA-PRACH-ConfigurationIndex used in the 2-step random-access procedure;
2>	else:
3>	set the msg1-SubcarrierSpacing associated to the 4 step random-access resources used in the random-access procedure;
2>	set the msg1-FrequencyStart associated to the 4 step random-access resources if used in the random-access procedure, and if its value is different from the value of msgA-RO-FrequencyStart if it is included in the ra-InformationCommon;
2>	set the msg1-FDM associated to the 4 step random-access resources if used in the random-access procedure, and if its value is different from the value of msgA-RO-FDM if it is included in the ra-InformationCommon;
2>	if msg1-SubcarrierSpacing associated to the 4 step random-access resources used in the random-access procedure is available, and if its value is different from the value of msgA-SubcarrierSpacing if it is included in the ra-InformationCommon:
3>	set the msg1-SubcarrierSpacing associated to the 4 step random-access resources used in the random-access procedure;
2> else:
3>	set the msg1-SCS-From-prach-ConfigurationIndex to the subcarrier spacing as derived from the prach-ConfigurationIndex used in the 4-step random-access procedure, and if its value is different from the value of msgA-SCS-From-prach-ConfigurationIndex if it is included in the ra-InformationCommon;
1>	if contention free random-access resources are used in the random-access procedure:
2>	set the msg1-FrequencyStartCFRA and msg1-FDMCFRA associated to the 4 step random-access resources if used in the random-access procedure;
2> if msg1-SubcarrierSpacing associated to the 4 step random-access resources used in the random-access procedure is available:
3>	set the msg1-SubcarrierSpacingCFRA associated to the 4 step random-access resources used in the random-access procedure;
2> else:
3>	set the msg1-SCS-From-prach-ConfigurationIndexCFRA to the subcarrier spacing as derived from the prach-ConfigurationIndex used in the 4 step random-access procedure;
2>	set the msgA-RO-FrequencyStartCFRA and msgA-RO-FDMCFRA associated to the 2 step contention free random access resources if used in the random-access procedure;
2>	set the msgA-MCS, the nrofPRBs-PerMsgA-PO, the msgA-PUSCH-TimeDomainAllocation, the frequencyStartMsgA-PUSCH, the nrofMsgA-PO-FDM associated to the 2 step random-access resources if used in the random-access procedure;
2>	if msgA-SubcarrierSpacing associated to the 2 step random-access resources used in the random-access procedure is available:
3>	set the msgA-SubcarrierSpacing associated to the 2 step random-access resources used in the random-access procedure;
2>	else if only 2 step random-access resources are available in the UL BWP used in the random-access procedure:
3>	set the msgA-SCS-From-prach-ConfigurationIndex to the subcarrier spacing as derived from the msgA-PRACH-ConfigurationIndex used in the 2-step random-access procedure;
2>	else:
3>	set the msg1-SubcarrierSpacing associated to the 4 step random-access resources used in the random-access procedure;
1>	if the random access procedure is initialized with RA_TYPE set to 2-stepRA as described in TS 38.321 [3]:
2>	set the dlPathlossRSRP to the measeured RSRP of the DL pathloss reference obtained at the time of RA_Type selection stage of the initialization of the RA procedure as captured in TS 38.321 [3];
2>	if the configuration for the random access msgA-TransMax was configured in RACH-ConfigDedicated for this random access procedure, and raPurpose is set to reconfigurationWithSync:
3>	set msgA-TransMax to the value of msgA-TransMax in RACH-ConfigDedicated;
2>	else if msgA-TransMax was configured in RACH-ConfigCommonTwoStepRA:
3>	set msgA-TransMax to the value of msgA-TransMax in RACH-ConfigCommonTwoStepRA;
2>	set the msgA-PUSCH-PayloadSize to the size of the overall payload available in the UE buffer at the time of initiating the 2 step RA procedure;
1>	if the purpose of the random access procedure is to request on-demand system information (i.e., if the raPurpose is set to requestForOtherSI or msg3RequestForOtherSI):
2>	set the intendedSIBs to indicate the SIB(s) the UE wanted to receive as a result of the SI request;
2>	set the ssbsForSI-Acquisition to indicate the SSB(s) used to receive the SI message;
2>	if the on-demand system information acquisition was successful:
3>	set the onDemandSISuccess to true;
1>	if one or more of the features including RedCap and/or Slicing and/or SDT and/or MSG3 repetitions and/or MSG1 repetitions and/or eRedCap are applicable for this random-access procedure as specified in clause 5.1.1b of TS 38.321[3]:
2>	set the triggeredFeatureCombination to indicate all the features triggering this random-access procedure as below:
3>	if this random-access procedure is triggered by RedCap, include redCap;
3>	if this random-access procedure is triggered by SDT, include smallData;
3>	if this random-access procedure is triggered by Msg3 repetitions, include msg3-Repetitions;
3>	if this random-access procedure is triggered by Msg1 repetitions, include msg1-Repetitions;
3>	if this random-access procedure is triggered by eRedCap, include eRedCap;
3>	if this random-access procedure is triggered by slicing, set nsag to the NSAG-ID(s) applied in the random-access procedure and set the triggered-S-NSSAI-List to include all the S-NSSAI(s) associated to the slices triggering the access attempt in the random-access procedure;
2>	if the value of used feature or combination of features is different from the triggeredFeatureCombination:
3>	set the usedFeatureCombination to indicate one or more features of FeatureCombination associated to the random-access resource used in the random-access procedure as below:
4>	if RedCap is part of the used FeatureCombination, include redCap;
4>	if SDT is part of the used FeatureCombination, include smallData;
4>	if Msg3 repetitions is part of the used FeatureCombination, include msg3-Repetitions;
4>	if Msg1 repetitions is part of the used FeatureCombination, include msg1-Repetitions;
4>	if eRedCap is part of the used FeatureCombination, include eRedCap;
4>	if NSAG(s) is part of the used FeatureCombination, set nsag to include the NSAG-ID(s) configured for the used FeatureCombination;
2>	set the startPreambleForThisPartition to the value of startPreambleForThisPartition in FeatureCombinationPreambles associated to the used FeatureCombination;
2>	set the numberOfPreamblesPerSSB-ForThisPartition to the value of numberOfPreamblesPerSSB-ForThisPartition in FeatureCombinationPreambles associated to the used FeatureCombination;
1>	set the parameters associated to the successive random-access attempts associated to the selected beam in the perRAInfoList as follows:
2>	if the random-access resource used is associated to a SS/PBCH block, set the associated random-access parameters for the successive random-access attempts associated to the same SS/PBCH block for one or more random-access attempts as follows:
3>	set the ssb-Index to include the SS/PBCH block index associated to the used random-access resource;
3>	set the numberOfPreamblesSentOnSSB to indicate the number of successive random-access attempts associated to the SS/PBCH block;
3>	if all preamble transmissions for the successive random-access attempts associated to this SS/PBCH block were blocked by LBT:
4>	include allPreamblesBlocked;
3>	else:
4>	if LBT failure indication was received from lower layers for the last random-access preamble transmission attempt in the SS/PBCH block associated to the ssb-Index, before changing the SS/PBCH block for random access preamble transmission:
5>	include lbt-Detected;
3>	for each random-access attempt performed on the random-access resource, except the random-access attempts for which LBT failure indication was received from lower layers, include the following parameters in the chronological order of the random-access attempt:
4>	if the random-access attempt is performed on the contention based random-access resource and if raPurpose is not equal to 'requestForOtherSI', include contentionDetected as follows:
5>	if contention resolution was not successful as specified in TS 38.321 [6] for the transmitted preamble:
6>	set the contentionDetected to true;
5>	else:
6>	set the contentionDetected to false;
4>	if the random access attempt is a 2-step random access attempt:
5>	if fallback from 2-step random access to 4-step random access occurred during the random access attempt:
6>	set fallbackToFourStepRA to true;
4>	if the random-access attempt is performed on the contention based random-access resource; or
4>	if the random-access attempt is performed on the contention free random-access resource and if the random-access procedure was initiated due to the PDCCH ordering:
5>	if the random access attempt is a 4-step random access attempt and the SS/PBCH block RSRP of the SS/PBCH block corresponding to the random-access resource used in the random-access attempt is above rsrp-ThresholdSSB; or
5>	if the random access attempt is a 2-step random access attempt and the SS/PBCH block RSRP of the SS/PBCH block corresponding to the random-access resource used in the random-access attempt is above msgA-RSRP-ThresholdSSB:
6>	set the dlRSRPAboveThreshold to true;
5>	else:
6>	set the dlRSRPAboveThreshold to false;
2>	else if the random-access resource used is associated to a CSI-RS, set the associated random-access parameters for the successive random-access attempts associated to the same CSI-RS for one or more random-access attempts as follows:
3>	set the csi-RS-Index to include the CSI-RS index associated to the used random-access resource;
3>	set the numberOfPreamblesSentOnCSI-RS to indicate the number of successive random-access attempts associated to the CSI-RS;
3>	if all preamble transmissions for the successive random-access attempts associated to this CSI-RS were blocked by LBT:
4>	include allPreamblesBlocked;
3>	else:
4>	if LBT failure indication was received from lower layers for the last random-access preamble transmission attempt in the CSI-RS associated to the csi-RS-Index, before changing the CSI-RS for random access preamble transmission:
5>	include lbt-Detected;
1>	if at least one LBT failure indication has been received from lower layers during the random-access procedure:
2>	set the numberOfLBT-Failures to indicate the total number of random-access attempts for which LBT failure indications have been received from lower layers in the random-access procedure.
The UE shall, for all the BWPs in which consistent LBT failures are triggered and not cancelled (according to TS 38.321 [3]) prior to successful RA completion or prior to RLF/HOF, set the below parameters in attemptedBWP-InfoList in the chronological order of BWP selection:
1>	set the locationAndBandwidth and subcarrierSpacing associated to the UL BWP.
NOTE 1:	Void.
NOTE 2:	If allPreamblesBlocked is included, it is left to UE implementation how to set the numberOfPreamblesSentOnSSB-r16, numberOfPreamblesSentOnCSI-RS-r16 and the perRAAttemptInfoList-r16.
5.7.10.6	Actions for the successful handover report determination
The UE shall for the PCell:
1>	if the procedure is triggered due to successful completion of reconfiguration with sync, and if the ratio between the value of the elapsed time of the timer T304 and the configured value of the timer T304, included in the last applied RRCReconfiguration message including the reconfigurationWithSync, is greater than thresholdPercentageT304 if included in the successHO-Config received before executing the last reconfiguration with sync; or
1>	if the procedure is triggered due to successful completion of reconfiguration with sync, and if the ratio between the value of the elapsed time of the timer T310 and the configured value of the timer T310, configured while the UE was connected to the source PCell before executing the last reconfiguration with sync, is greater than thresholdPercentageT310 included in the successHO-Config if configured by the source PCell before executing the last reconfiguration with sync; or
1>	if the procedure is triggered due to successful completion of reconfiguration with sync, and if the T312 associated to the measurement identity of the target cell was running at the time of initiating the execution of the reconfiguration with sync procedure and if the ratio between the value of the elapsed time of the timer T312 and the configured value of the timer T312, configured while the UE was connected to the source PCell before executing the last reconfiguration with sync, is greater than thresholdPercentageT312 included in the successHO-Config if configured by the source PCell before executing the last reconfiguration with sync; or
1>	if the procedure is triggered due to successful completion of reconfiguration with sync, and if sourceDAPS-FailureReporting is included in the successHO-Config before executing the last reconfiguration with sync and is set to true and if the last executed handover was a DAPS handover and if an RLF occurred at the source PCell during the DAPS handover while T304 was running; or:
1>	if the procedure is triggered due to successful completion of Mobility from NR to E-UTRA, and if the ratio between the value of the elapsed time of the timer T310 and the configured value of the timer T310, configured while the UE was connected to the source PCell before executing the last Mobility from NR to E-UTRA, is greater than thresholdPercentageT310 included in the successHO-Config if configured by the source PCell before executing the last Mobility from NR to E-UTRA; or
1>	if the procedure is triggered due to successful completion of Mobility from NR to E-UTRA, and if the T312 associated to the measurement identity of the target cell was running at the time of initiating the execution of the Mobility from NR to E-UTRA and if the ratio between the value of the elapsed time of the timer T312 and the configured value of the timer T312, configured while the UE was connected to the source PCell before executing the last Mobility from NR to E-UTRA, is greater than thresholdPercentageT312 included in the successHO-Config if configured by the source PCell before executing the last Mobility from NR to E-UTRA:
2>	store the successful handover information in VarSuccessHO-Report and determine the content in VarSuccessHO-Report as follows:
3>	clear the information included in VarSuccessHO-Report, if any;
3>	if the UE is not in SNPN access mode, set the plmn-IdentityList to include the list of EPLMNs stored by the UE (i.e., includes the RPLMN);
3>	else if the UE is in SNPN access mode, set the snpn-IdentityList to include the list of equivalent SNPNs stored by the UE (i.e., including the registered SNPN identity), if available;
3>	for intra-NR handover, set the c-RNTI to the C-RNTI assigned by the target PCell of the handover;
3>	if the procedure is triggered due to successful completion of reconfiguration with sync, for the source PCell in which the last RRCReconfiguration message including reconfigurationWithSync was applied; or
3>	if the procedure is triggered due to successful completion of Mobility from NR to E-UTRA, for the source PCell in which the last MobilityFromNRCommand concerning an inter-RAT handover from NR to E-UTRA was applied:
4>	set the sourcePCellID in sourceCellInfo to the global cell identity and tracking area code, if available, of the source PCell;
4>	set the sourceCellMeas in sourceCellInfo to include the cell level RSRP, RSRQ and the available SINR, of the source PCell based on the available SSB and CSI-RS measurements collected up to the moment the UE sends RRCReconfigurationComplete message if the procedure is triggered due to successful completion of reconfiguration with sync, or up to the moment the UE sends the EUTRA RRCConnectionReconfigurationComplete message if the procedure is triggered due to successful completion of Mobility from NR to E-UTRA;
4>	set the rsIndexResults in sourceCellMeas to include all the available SSB and CSI-RS measurement quantities of the source PCell collected up to the moment the UE sends RRCReconfigurationComplete message if the procedure is triggered due to successful completion of reconfiguration with sync, or up to the moment the UE sends the EUTRA RRCConnectionReconfigurationComplete message if the procedure is triggered due to successful completion of Mobility from NR to E-UTRA;
4>	if the last executed handover was a DAPS handover and if an RLF occurred at the source PCell during the DAPS handover while T304 was running:
5>	set the rlf-InSourceDAPS in sourceCellInfo to true;
3>	if the procedure is triggered due to successful completion of reconfiguration with sync, for the target PCell indicated in the last applied RRCReconfiguration message including reconfigurationWithSync:
4>	set the targetPCellID in targetCellInfo to the global cell identity and tracking area code, if available, of the target PCell; otherwise, set the targetCell-PCI-ARFCN to the physical cell identity and carrier frequency of the target PCell;
NOTE 00:	If targetCell-PCI-ARFCN is included, it is left to UE implementation how to set the targetPCellID.
4>	set the targetCellMeas in targetCellInfo to include the cell level RSRP, RSRQ and the available SINR, of the target PCell based on the available SSB and CSI-RS measurements collected up to the moment the UE sends RRCReconfigurationComplete message;
4>	set the rsIndexResults in targetCellMeas to include all the available SSB and CSI-RS measurement quantities of the target PCell collected up to the moment the UE sends RRCReconfigurationComplete message;
4>	if the last applied RRCReconfiguration message including reconfigurationWithSync was included in the stored condRRCReconfig:
5>	set the timeSinceCHO-Reconfig to the time elapsed between the initiation of the execution of conditional reconfiguration for the target PCell and the reception of the last conditionalReconfiguration including the condRRCReconfig of the target PCell in the source PCell;
3>	if the procedure is triggered due to successful completion of Mobility from NR to E-UTRA, for the target PCell indicated in the last applied MobilityFromNRCommand concerning an inter-RAT handover from NR to E-UTRA:
4>	set the targetPCellId in eutra-TargetCellInfo to the global cell identity and tracking area code, if available, and otherwise to the physical cell identity and carrier frequency of the target PCell;
4>	set the targetCellMeas in eutra-TargetCellInfo to include the cell level RSRP, RSRQ and the available SINR, of the target PCell based on the available measurements collected up to the moment the UE sends RRCConnectionReconfigurationComplete message;
NOTE 0:	If eutra-TargetCellInfo is included, it is left to UE implementation how to set the targetCellInfo.
3>	if the procedure is triggered due to successful completion of reconfiguration with sync and if the ratio between the value of the elapsed time of the timer T304 and the configured value of the T304 timer, included in the last applied RRCReconfiguration message including the reconfigurationWithSync, is greater than thresholdPercentageT304 if included in the successHO-Config received before executing the last reconfiguration with sync:
4>	set t304-cause in shr-Cause to true;
4>	set the ra-InformationCommon to include the random-access related information associated to the random access procedure in the target PCell, as specified in clause 5.7.10.5;
3>	if the ratio between the value of the elapsed time of the timer T310 and the configured value of the T310 timer, configured while the UE was connected to the source PCell before executing the last reconfiguration with sync or the last Mobility from NR to E-UTRA, is greater than thresholdPercentageT310 included in the successHO-Config if configured by the source PCell before executing the last reconfiguration with sync or Mobility from NR to E-UTRA:
4>	set t310-cause in shr-Cause to true;
3>	if the T312 associated to the measurement identity of the target cell was running at the time of initiating the execution of the reconfiguration with sync procedure or Mobility from NR to E-UTRA, and if the ratio between the value of the elapsed time of the timer T312 and the configured value of the T312 timer, configured while the UE was connected to the source PCell before executing the last reconfiguration with sync or Mobility from NR to E-UTRA, is greater than thresholdPercentageT312 included in the successHO-Config if configured by the source PCell before executing the last reconfiguration with sync, or Mobility from NR to E-UTRA:
4>	set t312-cause in shr-Cause to true;
3>	if the procedure is triggered due to successful completion of reconfiguration with sync and if sourceDAPS-FailureReporting included in the successHO-Config if configured by the source PCell before executing the last reconfiguration with sync is set to true, and if the last executed handover was a DAPS handover and if an RLF occurred at the source PCell during the DAPS handover while T304 was running:
4>	set sourceDAPS-Failure in shr-Cause to true;
3>	if the procedure is triggered due to successful completion of reconfiguration with sync, for each of the measObjectNR, configured by the source PCell, in which the last RRCReconfiguration message including reconfigurationWithSync was applied;or:
3>	if the procedure is triggered due to successful completion of Mobility from NR to E-UTRA, for each of the measObjectNR, configured by the source PCell, in which the last MobilityFromNRCommand concerning an inter-RAT handover from NR to E-UTRA was applied:
4>	if measRSSI-ReportConfig is configured for the frequency of the source PCell:
5>	if the procedure is triggered due to successful completion of reconfiguration with sync:
6>	set the measResultServCellRSSI to the linear average of the available RSSI sample value(s) provided by lower layers for the frequency of the source PCell up to the moment the UE sends the RRCReconfigurationComplete message;
5>	else if the procedure is triggered due to successful completion of Mobility from NR to E-UTRA:
6>	set the measResultServCellRSSI to the linear average of the available RSSI sample value(s) provided by lower layers for the frequency of the source PCell up to the moment the UE sends the EUTRA RRCConnectionReconfigurationComplete message;
4>	for each of the configured measObjectNR if measRSSI-ReportConfig is configured for the configured frequency:
5>	if the procedure is triggered due to successful completion of reconfiguration with sync:
6>	set the measResultNeighFreqRSSI in the measResultNeighFreqListRSSI to the linear average of the available RSSI sample value(s) provided by lower layers for the associated neighbouring frequency up to the moment the UE sends the RRCReconfigurationComplete message:
7>	for each neighbour frequency included, include the optional fields that are available;
5>	else if the procedure is triggered due to successful completion of Mobility from NR to E-UTRA:
6>	set the measResultNeighFreqRSSI in the measResultNeighFreqListRSSI to the linear average of the available RSSI sample value(s) provided by lower layers for the associated neighbouring frequency up to the moment the UE sends the EUTRA RRCConnectionReconfigurationComplete message:
7>	for each neighbour frequency included, include the optional fields that are available;
4>	if measurements are available for the measObjectNR:
5>	if the SS/PBCH block-based measurement quantities are available:
6>	set the measResultListNR in measResultNeighCells to include all the available measurement quantities of the best measured cells, other than the source PCell or target PCell, ordered such that the cell with highest SS/PBCH block RSRP is listed first if SS/PBCH block RSRP measurement results are available, otherwise the cell with highest SS/PBCH block RSRQ is listed first if SS/PBCH block RSRQ measurement results are available, otherwise the cell with highest SS/PBCH block SINR is listed first, based on the available SS/PBCH block based measurements collected up to the moment the UE sends the RRCReconfigurationComplete message if the procedure is triggered due to successful completion of reconfiguration with sync, or up to the moment the UE sends the EUTRA RRCConnectionReconfigurationComplete message if the procedure is triggered due to successful completion of Mobility from NR to E-UTRA;
6>	for each neighbour cell included, include the optional fields that are available;
NOTE 1:	For the neighboring cells set included in measResultListNR in measResultNeighCells ordered based on the SS/PBCH block measurement quantities, the UE includes also the CSI-RS based measurement quantities, if available.
5>	if the CSI-RS measurement quantities are available:
6>	set the measResultListNR in measResultNeighCells to include all the available measurement quantities of the best measured cells, other than the source PCell and target PCell, ordered such that the cell with highest CSI-RS RSRP is listed first if CSI-RS RSRP measurement results are available, otherwise the cell with highest CSI-RS RSRQ is listed first if CSI-RS RSRQ measurement results are available, otherwise the cell with highest CSI-RS SINR is listed first, based on the available CSI-RS based measurements collected up to the moment the UE sends the RRCReconfigurationComplete message if the procedure is triggered due to successful completion of reconfiguration with sync, or up to the moment the UE sends the EUTRA RRCConnectionReconfigurationComplete message if the procedure is triggered due to successful completion of Mobility from NR to E-UTRA;
6>	for each neighbour cell included, include the optional fields that are available;
NOTE 2:	For the neighboring cells set ordered based on the CSI-RS measurement quantities, the UE includes measurements only for the cells not yet included in measResultListNR in measResultNeighCells to avoid overriding SS/PBCH block-based ordered measurements.
3>	if the procedure is triggered due to successful completion of reconfiguration with sync, for each of the measObjectEUTRA, configured by the source PCell in which the last RRCReconfiguration message including reconfigurationWithSync was applied; or:
3>	if the procedure is triggered due to successful completion of Mobility from NR to E-UTRA, for each of the measObjectEUTRA, configured by the source PCell in which the last MobilityFromNRCommand concerning an inter-RAT handover from NR to E-UTRA was applied:
4>	if measurements are available for the measObjectEUTRA:
5>	set the measResultListEUTRA in measResultNeighCells to include the best measured cells ordered such that the cell with highest RSRP is listed first if RSRP measurement results are available, otherwise the cell with highest RSRQ is listed first, based on measurements collected up to the moment the UE sends the RRCReconfigurationComplete message if the procedure is triggered due to successful completion of reconfiguration with sync, or up to the moment the UE sends the EUTRA RRCConnectionReconfigurationComplete message if the procedure is triggered due to successful completion of Mobility from NR to E-UTRA;
5>	for each neighbour cell included, include the optional fields that are available;
3>	for each of the neighbour cells included in measResultNeighCells:
4>	if the cell was a candidate target cell included in the condRRCReconfig within the conditionalReconfiguration configured by the source PCell including the condExecutionCond within the conditionalReconfiguration associated to condEventA3 or condEventA5, in which the last RRCReconfiguration message including reconfigurationWithSync was applied:
5>	set the choCandidate to true in measResultNR;
3>	if available, set the locationInfo as in 5.3.3.7;
1>	release successHO-Config configured by the source PCell and thresholdPercentageT304 if configured by the target PCell.
The UE may discard the successful handover information, i.e., release the UE variable VarSuccessHO-Report, 48 hours after the last successful handover information is added to the VarSuccessHO-Report.
5.7.10.7	Actions for the successful PSCell change or addition report determination
The UE shall for the PSCell:
1>	if the ratio between the value of the elapsed time of the timer T304 and the configured value of the timer T304, included in the last applied RRCReconfiguration message for the SCG including the reconfigurationWithSync, is greater than thresholdPercentageT304-SCG if included in the successPSCell-Config received before executing the last reconfiguration with sync for the SCG; or
1>	if sn-InitiatedPSCellChange associated to the last applied RRCReconfiguration with reconfigurationWithSync for the SCG is configured and if the ratio between the value of the elapsed time of the timer T310 and the configured value of the timer T310, configured while the UE was connected to the source PSCell before executing the last reconfiguration with sync for the SCG, is greater than thresholdPercentageT310-SCG included in the successPSCell-Config if configured by the source PSCell before executing the last reconfiguration with sync for the SCG; or
1>	if sn-InitiatedPSCellChange associated to the last applied RRCReconfiguration with reconfigurationWithSync for the SCG is configured and if the T312 associated to the measurement identity of the target PSCell included in a measConfig associated with the SCG was running at the time of initiating the execution of the reconfiguration with sync procedure for the SCG and if the ratio between the value of the elapsed time of the timer T312 and the configured value of the timer T312, configured while the UE was connected to the source PSCell before executing the last reconfiguration with sync, is greater than thresholdPercentageT312-SCG included in the successPSCell-Config if configured by the source PSCell before executing the last reconfiguration with sync for the SCG:
1>	if sn-InitiatedPSCellChange associated to the last applied RRCReconfiguration with reconfigurationWithSync for the SCG is not configured and if the ratio between the value of the elapsed time of the timer T310 and the configured value of the timer T310, configured while the UE was connected to the source PSCell before executing the last reconfiguration with sync for the SCG, is greater than thresholdPercentageT310-SCG included in the successPSCell-Config if configured by the PCell before executing the last reconfiguration with sync for the SCG; or
1>	if sn-InitiatedPSCellChange associated to the last applied RRCReconfiguration with reconfigurationWithSync for the SCG is not configured and if the T312 associated to the measurement identity of the target PSCell included in a measConfig associated with the SCG was running at the time of initiating the execution of the reconfiguration with sync procedure for the SCG and if the ratio between the value of the elapsed time of the timer T312 and the configured value of the timer T312, configured while the UE was connected to the source PSCell before executing the last reconfiguration with sync, is greater than thresholdPercentageT312-SCG included in the successPSCell-Config if configured by the PCell before executing the last reconfiguration with sync for the SCG:
2>	clear the information included in VarSuccessPSCell-Report, if any;
2>	store the successful PSCell change or addition information in VarSuccessPSCell-Report and determine the content in VarSuccessPSCell-Report as follows:
3>	if the UE is not in SNPN access mode, set the plmn-IdentityList to include the list of EPLMNs (including the RPLMN) stored by the UE;
3>	else if the UE is in SNPN access mode, set the snpn-IdentityList to include the list of equivalent SNPN identities (including the registered SNPN identity) stored by the UE, if available;
3>	set the pCellId to the global cell identity and, if available, tracking area code of the PCell;
3>	for the source PSCell (in case of PSCell change procedure) in which the last RRCReconfiguration message for the SCG including reconfigurationWithSync was applied:
4>	set the sourcePSCellId in sourcePSCellInfo to the global cell identity and tracking area code, and otherwise to the physical cell identity and carrier frequency of the source PSCell;
4>	set the sourcePSCellMeas in sourcePSCellInfo to include the cell level RSRP, RSRQ and the available SINR, of the source PSCell based on the available SSB and CSI-RS measurements collected up to the moment the UE successfully completed the random access procedure for the SCG;
4>	set the rsIndexResults in sourcePSCellMeas to include all the available SSB and CSI-RS measurement quantities of the source PSCell collected up to the moment the UE successfully completed the random access procedure for the SCG;
3>	for the target PSCell indicated in the last applied RRCReconfiguration message for the SCG including reconfigurationWithSync:
4>	set the targetPSCellID in targetPSCellInfo to the global cell identity and tracking area code, if available, and otherwise to the physical cell identity and carrier frequency of the target PSCell;
4>	set the targetPSCellMeas in targetPSCellInfo to include the cell level RSRP, RSRQ and the available SINR, of the target PSCell based on the available SSB and CSI-RS measurements collected up to the moment the UE successfully completed the random access procedure for the SCG;
4>	set the rsIndexResults in targetPSCellMeas to include all the available SSB and CSI-RS measurement quantities of the target PSCell collected up to the moment the UE successfully completed the random access procedure for the SCG;
4>	if the last applied RRCReconfiguration message for the SCG including reconfigurationWithSync was included in the stored condRRCReconfig:
5>	set the timeSinceCPAC-Reconfig to the time elapsed between the initiation of the execution of conditional reconfiguration for the target PSCell and the reception of the last conditionalReconfiguration for the SCG including the condRRCReconfig of the target PSCell;
3>	if triggering threshold for storing the successful PSCell change or addition information in VarSuccessPSCell-Report based on the thresholdPercentageT304-SCG is met:
4>	set t304-cause in spr-Cause to true;
4>	set the ra-InformationCommon to include the random-access related information associated to the random access procedure in the target PSCell, as specified in clause 5.7.10.5;
3>	if triggering threshold for storing the successful PSCell change or addition information in VarSuccessPSCell-Report based on the thresholdPercentageT310-SCG is met:
4>	set t310-cause in spr-Cause to true;
3>	if triggering threshold for storing the successful PSCell change or addition information in VarSuccessPSCell-Report based on the thresholdPercentageT312-SCG is met:
4>	set t312-cause in spr-Cause to true;
3>	if sn-InitiatedPSCellChange associated to the last applied RRCReconfiguration with reconfigurationWithSync for the SCG is configured:
4>	consider all measObjectNR configured by the source PSCell;
3>	else:
4>	consider all measObjectNR configured by the PCell;
3>	for each of the considered measObjectNR:
4>	if measurements are available for the measObjectNR:
5>	if the SS/PBCH block-based measurement quantities are available:
6>	include in the measResultListNR in measResultNeighCells all the available measurement quantities of the best measured cells, other than the source PSCell (in case of PSCell change procedure) or target PSCell, ordered such that the cell with highest SS/PBCH block RSRP is listed first if SS/PBCH block RSRP measurement results are available, otherwise the cell with highest SS/PBCH block RSRQ is listed first if SS/PBCH block RSRQ measurement results are available, otherwise the cell with highest SS/PBCH block SINR is listed first, based on the available SS/PBCH block based measurements collected up to the moment the UE successfully completed the random access procedure;
6>	for each neighbour cell included, include the optional fields that are available (including the CSI-RS based measurement quantities, if available);
5>	if the CSI-RS measurement quantities are available for the cells not yet included in measResultListNR in measResultNeighCells:
6>	include in the measResultListNR in measResultNeighCells all the available measurement quantities of the best measured cells, other than the source PSCell (in case of PSCell change procedure) and target PSCell, ordered such that the cell with highest CSI-RS RSRP is listed first if CSI-RS RSRP measurement results are available, otherwise the cell with highest CSI-RS RSRQ is listed first if CSI-RS RSRQ measurement results are available, otherwise the cell with highest CSI-RS SINR is listed first, based on the available CSI-RS based measurements collected up to the moment the UE successfully completed the random access procedure;
6>	for each neighbour cell included, include the optional fields that are available;
3>	for each of the neighbour cells included in measResultNeighCells:
4>	if the cell was a candidate target cell included in the condRRCReconfig within the conditionalReconfiguration, configured by the source PCell including the condExecutionCond within the conditionalReconfiguration associated to condEventA4 or by the source PSCell (in case of PSCell change) when the last RRCReconfiguration message for the SCG including reconfigurationWithSync was applied:
5>	set the choCandidate to true in measResultNR;
3>	if sn-InitiatedPSCellChange associated to the last applied RRCReconfiguration with reconfigurationWithSync for the SCG is configured:
4>	if available, set the locationInfo as in 5.3.3.7 according to the otherConfig associated with the source PSCell;
4>	include sn-InitiatedPSCellChange;
3>	else:
4>	if available, set the locationInfo as in 5.3.3.7 according to the otherConfig associated with the PCell;
1>	release successPSCell-Config configured by the source PSCell if available and thresholdPercentageT304 if configured by the target PSCell.
The UE may discard the successful PSCell change or addition information, i.e., release the UE variable VarSuccessPSCell-Report, 48 hours after the last successful PSCell change or addition information is added to the VarSuccessPSCell-Report or upon deregistration from the network as specified in TS 23.502 [43].
5.7.11	Void
5.7.12	IAB Other Information
5.7.12.1	General

Figure 5.7.12.1-1: IAB Other Information procedure
The IAB Other Information procedure is used by IAB-MT to request the IAB-donor-CU to allocate IP address or inform the IAB-donor-CU of the IP address for the collocated IAB-DU.
5.7.12.2	Initiation
Upon initiation of the procedure, the IAB-MT shall:
1>	initiate transmission of the IABOtherInformation message in accordance with 5.7.12.3;
5.7.12.3	Actions related to transmission of IABOtherInformation message
The IAB-MT shall set the contents of IABOtherInformation message as follows:
1>	if the procedure is used to request IP addresses:
2>	if IPv4 addresses are requested:
3>	set the iab-IPv4-AddressNumReq to the number of IPv4 addresses requested per specific usage;
2>	if IPv6 addresses or IPv6 address prefixes are requested:
3>	if IPv6 addresses are requested:
4>	set the iab-IPv6-AddressNumReq to the number of IPv6 addresses requested per specific usage;
3>	else if IPv6 address prefixes are requested:
4>	set the iab-IPv6-AddressPrefixReq to true per specific usage;
1>	if the procedure is used to report IP addresses:
2>	if IPv4 addresses are reported:
3>	include iPv4-Address in iab-IPv4-AddressReport, and for each IP address included:
4>	if IPv4 addresses are used for F1-C traffic:
5>	include these addresses in f1-C-Traffic-IP-Address.
4>	if IPv4 addresses are used for F1-U traffic:
5>	include these addresses in f1-U-Traffic-IP-Address.
4>	if IPv4 address are used for non-F1 traffic:
5>	include these addresses in non-f1-Traffic-IP-Address.
4>	if IPv4 addresses are used for all traffic:
5>	include these addresses in all-Traffic-IAB-IP-Address.
2>	if IPv6 addresses or IPv6 address prefixes are reported:
3>	if IPv6 addresses are reported:
4>	include iPv6-Address in iab-IPv6-AddressReport, and for each IP address included;
5>	if IPv6 addresses are used for F1-C traffic:
6>	include these addresses in f1-C-Traffic-IP-Address.
5>	if IPv6 addresses are used for F1-U traffic:
6>	include these addresses in f1-U-Traffic-IP-Address.
5>	if IPv6 addresses are used for non-F1 traffic:
6>	include these addresses in non-f1-Traffic-IP-Address.
5>	if IPv6 addresses are used for all traffic:
6>	include these addresses in all-Traffic-IAB-IP-Address.
3>	else if IPv6 address prefixes are reported:
4>	include these iPv6-Prefix in iab-IPv6-PrefixReport, and for each IP address prefix included;
5>	if this IPv6 address prefix is used for F1-C traffic:
6>	include this prefix in f1-C-Traffic-IP-Address.
5>	if this IPv6 address prefix is used for F1-U traffic:
6>	include this prefix in f1-U-Traffic-IP-Address.
5>	if this IPv6 address prefix is used for non-F1 traffic:
6>	include this prefix in non-f1-Traffic-IP-Address.
5>	if this IPv6 address prefix is used for all traffic:
6>	include this prefix in all-Traffic-IAB-IP-Address.
1>	if the IAB-MT is in (NG)EN-DC, or
1>	if the IAB-MT is in NR-DC and the IAB Other Information procedure is towards the IAB-donor-CU in the SN:
2>	if SRB3 is configured:
3>	submit the IABOtherInformation message via SRB3 to lower layers for transmission;
2>	else if the IAB-MT is in (NG)EN-DC:
3>	submit the IABOtherInformation message via the E-UTRA MCG embedded in E-UTRA RRC message ULInformationTransferMRDC as specified in TS 36.331 [10];
2>	else:
3>	submit the IABOtherInformation message via the NR MCG embedded in NR RRC message ULInformationTransferMRDC as specified in clause 5.7.2a.3;
1>	else:
2>	submit the IABOtherInformation message to lower layers for transmission.
5.7.13	RLM/BFD relaxation
5.7.13.0	General
In case both low mobility criterion and good serving cell criterion are configured for RLM/BFD relaxation, the UE is allowed to perform RLM and/or BFD relaxation according to requirements specified in TS 38.133 [14] when both relaxed measurement criterion for low mobility and relaxed measurement criterion for good serving cell quality are met.
In case only the good serving cell quality criterion is configured for RLM/BFD relaxation, the UE is allowed to perform RLM and/or BFD relaxation according to requirements specified in TS 38.133 [14] when the relaxed measurement criterion for good serving cell quality is met.
When the short DRX cycle is smaller than or equal to 80 ms and the long DRX cycle is larger than 80 ms then the UE is allowed to perform RLM and/or BFD relaxation while drx-ShortCycleTimer is running and the relaxed measurement criteria are met. In this case the UE does not report change of its relaxation state for RLM and/or BFD relaxation due to start or stop of drx-ShortCycleTimer, if configured.
5.7.13.1	Relaxed measurement criterion for low mobility
The relaxed measurement criterion for UE with low mobility in RRC_CONNECTED is fulfilled when:
-	(SS-RSRPRef – SS-RSRP) < SSearchDeltaP-Connected,
Where:
-	SS-RSRP = current L3 RSRP measurement of the SpCell based on SSB (dB).
-	SS-RSRPRef = reference L3 RSRP measurement of the SpCell based on SSB (dB), set as follows:
-	After receiving low mobility criterion configuration, or
-	After MAC of the CG successfully completes a Random Access procedure after applying a reconfigurationWithSync in spCellConfig of the CG while low mobility criterion is configured, or
-	upon an indication from lower layers that a RACH-less handover or an LTM cell switch is successfully completed for the CG while low mobility criterion is configured, or
-	If (SS-RSRP - SS-RSRPRef) > 0, or
-	If the relaxed measurement criterion has not been met for TSearchDeltaP-Connected:
-	The UE shall set the value of SS-RSRPRef to the current SS-RSRP value of the SpCell.
5.7.13.2	Relaxed measurement criterion for good serving cell quality
The relaxed measurement criterion of good serving cell quality for RLM is fulfilled when the downlink radio link quality on the configured RLM-RS resource is evaluated to be better than the threshold Qin+XdB, wherein
-	Qin is specified in clause 8.1 of TS 38.133 [14].
-	X is the parameter offset in goodServingCellEvaluationRLM for the evaluated serving cell.
The relaxed measurement criterion of good serving cell quality for BFD is fulfilled when the downlink radio link quality on the configured BFD-RS resource is evaluated to be better than the threshold Qin+XdB, wherein
-	Q in is specified in clause 8.1 of TS 38.133 [14].
-	X is the parameter offset in goodServingCellEvaluationBFD for the evaluated serving cell.
5.7.14	UE Positioning Assistance Information
5.7.14.1	General

Figure 5.7.14.1-1: UE Positioning Assistance Information procedure
The UE Positioning Assistance Information procedure is used by UE to report the UE Positioning Assistance Information. The UE reports the association between SRS resources for positioning and the UE Tx TEG ID as defined in TS 38.305 [73].
5.7.14.2	Initiation
A UE capable of providing the association between SRS resource for positioning and UE Tx TEG ID in RRC_CONNECTED may initiate the procedure upon being configured to provide this association information.
Upon initiation of the procedure, the UE shall:
1>	initiate transmission of the UEPositioningAssistanceInfo message in accordance with 5.7.14.3 to provide the association.
5.7.14.3	Actions related to transmission of UEPositioningAssistanceInfo message
The UE shall set the contents of the UEPositioningAssistanceInfo message as follows:
1>	if ue-TxTEG-RequestUL-TDOA-Config in RRCReconfiguration message is configured with periodicReporting:
2>	for all the association changes store ue-TxTEG-Association corresponding to each ue-TxTEG-ID with nr-TimeStamp;
2>	include the results in ue-TxTEG-AssociationList in the UEPositioningAssistanceInfo message on expiry of each configured period;
2>	optionally include one ue-TxTEG-TimingErrorMarginValue for each UEPositioningAssistanceInfo message;
1>	else if ue-TxTEG-RequestUL-TDOA-Config in RRCReconfiguration message is configured with oneShot:
2>	identify the ue-TxTEG-Association corresponding to each ue-TxTEG-ID with nr-TimeStamp;
2>	include the results in ue-TxTEG-AssociationList in the UEPositioningAssistanceInfo message only one time;
2>	optionally include one ue-TxTEG-TimingErrorMarginValue for each UEPositioningAssistanceInfo message.
The UE shall submit the UEPositioningAssistanceInfo message to lower layers for transmission.
5.7.15	Void
5.7.16	Application layer measurement reporting
5.7.16.1	General

Figure 5.7.16.1-1: Application layer measurement reporting
The purpose of this procedure is to send application layer measurement reports to the network.
5.7.16.2	Initiation
A UE capable of application layer measurement reporting in RRC_CONNECTED may initiate the procedure when configured with application layer measurement and reporting, i.e. when at least one measConfigAppLayer and SRB4 and/or SRB5 have been configured by the network.
Upon initiating the procedure, the UE shall:
1>	for each stored application layer measurement configuration with appLayerIdleInactiveConfig configured and for which appLayerIdleInactiveConfig has not been transmitted since the UE received the RRCSetup message:
2>	set the parameters in appLayerIdleInactiveConfig in the MeasurementReportAppLayer message to the values stored in the UE variable VarAppLayerIdleConfig;
2>	if the transmissionOfSessionStartStop is set to true:
3>	if a session start or stop indication has been received from upper layers:
4>	set the appLayerSessionStatus in the MeasurementReportAppLayer message to the value of the latest received session start or stop indication;
3>	else:
4>	set the appLayerSessionStatus in the MeasurementReportAppLayer message to stop;
1>	for each measConfigAppLayerId with an application layer measurement report container which has not been transmitted since the UE received the RRCSetup message:
2>	if the application layer measurement reporting has not been suspended for the measConfigAppLayerId associated with the application layer measurement report container according to clause 5.3.5.13d:
3>	set the measConfigAppLayerId in a MeasReportAppLayer in the MeasurementReportAppLayer message(s) to the value of the measConfigAppLayerId received together with the application layer measurement report container;
3>	for each application measurement report container stored for that measConfigAppLayerId:
4>	set the measReportAppLayerContainerList in the MeasurementReportAppLayer message(s) to the stored value of the application layer measurement report container;
NOTE 0:	If the size of the application layer measurement configurations, session status indications and reports exceed the size of an RRC message, the UE includes the appLayerIdleInactiveConfig and corresponding appLayerSessionStatus in the first MeasurementReportAppLayer message after the UE received the RRCSetup message, and transmits application layer measurement report containers in the same and subsequent MeasurementReportAppLayer messages.
1>	for each measConfigAppLayerId received from upper layers:
2>	if the UE AS has received application layer measurement report container from upper layers which has not been transmitted; and
2>	if the application layer measurement reporting has not been suspended for the measConfigAppLayerId associated with the application layer measurement report container according to clause 5.3.5.13d:
3>	set the measReportAppLayerContainer in the MeasurementReportAppLayer message to the received value in the application layer measurement report container;
2>	set the measConfigAppLayerId in the MeasurementReportAppLayer message to the value of the measConfigAppLayerId received together with application layer measurement report information;
2>	if session start or stop information has been received from upper layers for the measConfigAppLayerId:
3>	set the appLayerSessionStatus in the MeasurementReportAppLayer message to the latest received value of session start or stop information;
2>	if a RAN visible application layer measurement report has been received from upper layers:
3>	for each appLayerBufferLevel value in the received RAN visible application layer measurement report:
4>	set the appLayerBufferLevel values in the appLayerBufferLevelList in the MeasurementReportAppLayer message to the buffer level values received from the upper layer in the order with the first appLayerBufferLevel value set to the newest received buffer level value, the second appLayerBufferLevel value set to the second newest received buffer level value, and so on until all the buffer level values received from the upper layer have been assigned or the maximum number of values have been set according to appLayerBufferLevel, if configured;
3>	set the playoutDelayForMediaStartup in the MeasurementReportAppLayer message to the received value of playout delay for media startup in the RAN visible application layer measurement report, if any;
3>	for each PDU session ID value indicated in the received RAN visible application layer measurement report, if any:
4>	set the PDU-SessionID in the pdu-SessionIdList in the MeasurementReportAppLayer message to the indicated PDU session ID value;
4>	for each QoS Flow ID value indicated in the received RAN visible application layer measurement report associated with the PDU Session ID, if any:
5>	set the QFI associated with the PDU session ID to the indicated QoS Flow ID value.
1>	if reportingSRB (or SRB4 if reportingSRB is absent) and ran-VisibleReportingSRB (or SRB4 if ran-VisibleReportingSRB is absent) indicates different SRBs for the measConfigAppLayerId:
2>	include measReportAppLayerContainer and appLayerSessionStatus in a separate MeasurementReportAppLayer message than ran-VisibleMeasurements;
1>	for each encoded MeasurementReportAppLayer message generated above which contains either only encapsulated application layer measurement reports or both encapsulated application layer measurement reports and RAN visible application layer measurement reports:
2>	if reportingSRB is not configured for the measConfigAppLayerId:
3>	if the encoded RRC message is larger than the maximum supported size of one PDCP SDU specified in TS 38.323 [5]:
4>	if the RRC message segmentation is enabled based on the field rrc-SegAllowedSRB4 received in appLayerMeasConfig:
5>	initiate the UL message segment transfer procedure as specified in clause 5.7.7 for transmission via SRB4;
4>	else:
5>	discard the RRC message;
3>	else:
4>	submit the MeasurementReportAppLayer message to lower layers for transmission via SRB4.
2>	else if reportingSRB is configured for the measConfigAppLayerId:
3>	if the encoded RRC message is larger than the maximum supported size of one PDCP SDU specified in TS 38.323 [5]:
4>	if the RRC message segmentation is enabled based on the field rrc-SegAllowedSRB4 received in appLayerMeasConfig and the reportingSRB is SRB4, or
4>	if RRC message segmentation is enabled based on the field rrc-SegAllowedSRB5 received in appLayerMeasConfig and the reportingSRB is SRB5:
5>	initiate the UL message segment transfer procedure as specified in clause 5.7.7 for transmission via the SRB indicated in the field reportingSRB in MeasConfigAppLayer;
4>	else:
5>	discard the RRC message;
3>	else:
4>	submit the MeasurementReportAppLayer message to lower layers for transmission via the SRB indicated in the field reportingSRB in MeasConfigAppLayer.
1>	for each encoded MeasurementReportAppLayer message generated above which contains only RAN visible application layer measurement reports:
2>	if ran-VisibleReportingSRB is not configured for the measConfigAppLayerId:
3>	submit the MeasurementReportAppLayer message to lower layers for transmission via SRB4;
2>	else if ran-VisibleReportingSRB is configured for the measConfigAppLayerId:
3>	submit the MeasurementReportAppLayer message to lower layers for transmission via the SRB indicated in the field ran-VisibleReportingSRB in MeasConfigAppLayer.
NOTE 1:	If the SRB indicated by reportingSRB is not available or if reportingSRB is absent and SRB4 is not available, the UE may store application layer measurement report containers until the SRB is available. The UE may discard reports when the memory reserved for storing application layer measurement report containers becomes full. Reports with lower appLayerMeasPriority are discarded first. If equal or no appLayerMeasPriority is configured, older reports are discarded first.
NOTE 2:	If the SRB indicated by ran-VisibleReportingSRB is not available or if ran-VisibleReportingSRB is absent and SRB4 is not available, the UE discards RAN visible application layer measurement reports.
5.7.17	Derivation of pathloss reference for TA validation of SRS for Positioning transmission and CG-SDT in RRC_INACTIVE
Upon request from lower layer for pathloss reference derivation for TA validation for SRS for Positioning transmission or CG-SDT in RRC_INACTIVE, the UE shall:
1>	acquire SIB2, if stored version is invalid;
1>	if nrofSS-BlocksToAverage or absThreshSS-BlocksConsolidation is not present or if absThreshSS-BlocksConsolidation is present and the highest beam measurement quantity value is below or equal to absThreshSS-BlocksConsolidation:
2>	derive the downlink pathloss reference RSRP for TA validation as the highest beam measurement quantity value, where each beam measurement quantity is described in TS 38.215 [24];
1>	else:
2>	derive the downlink pathloss reference RSRP for TA validation as the linear average of the power values of up to nrofSS-BlocksToAverage of the highest beam measurement quantity values above absThreshSS-BlocksConsolidation, where each beam measurement quantity is described in TS 38.215 [24].
NOTE:	If the UE is configured with multiple SSB configurations, the downlink pathloss reference RSRP for TA validation is derived from the SSB configured by SIB1.
5.7.18	Void
5.7.19	Satellite switch with resynchronization
A UE capable of hard satellite switch with resynchronization in RRC_CONNECTED initiates the procedure when SatSwitchWithReSync and t-Service are included in SIB19.
Upon initiating the procedure, the UE shall:
1>	if t-ServiceStart is included in SIB19 and the UE supports soft satellite switch with resynchronization:
2>	start acquiring DL synchronization with the SpCell served by the satellite indicated by ntn-Config in SatSwitchWithReSync between the time indicated by t-ServiceStart and the time indicated by t-Service for the serving cell;
1>	upon the time indicated by t-Service:
2>	stop timer T430 if running;
2>	inform lower layers that UL synchronisation is lost due to satellite switch with resynchronization;
2>	synchronise to the DL of the SpCell served by the satellite indicated by ntn-Config in SatSwitchWithReSync, if the UE has not previously synchronized to the DL of the SpCell;
2>	start timer T430 with the timer value set to ntn-UlSyncValidityDuration from the subframe indicated by epochTime in ntn-Config in SatSwitchWithReSync;
2>	inform lower layers when UL synchronisation is obtained.
NOTE:	UE should attempt to re-acquire SIB19 after satellite switch with resynchronization. The exact time is left to UE implementation.
5.7.20	Actions related to Transmission of SRS for Positioning in a validity area in RRC_INACTIVE
When configured with srs-PosRRC-InactiveValidityAreaPreConfigList, the UE shall:
1>	upon receiving RRCRelease message after sending the RRCResumeRequest message with the resumeCause set to srs-PosConfigOrActivationReq:
2>	if the current camped cell is included in any srs-PosConfigValidityArea in the srs-PosRRC-InactiveValidityAreaPreConfigList:
3>	apply the corresponding preconfigured SRS for positioning available in srs-PosRRC-InactiveValidityAreaPreConfigList and instruct lower layers to initiate SRS for Positioning transmission.
5.8	Sidelink
5.8.1	General
NR sidelink communication consists of unicast, groupcast and broadcast. For unicast, the PC5-RRC connection is a logical connection between a pair of a Source Layer-2 ID and a Destination Layer-2 ID in the AS. The PC5-RRC signalling, as specified in clause 5.8.9, can be initiated after its corresponding PC5 unicast link establishment (TS 23.287 [55]). The PC5-RRC connection and the corresponding sidelink SRBs and sidelink DRB(s) are released when the PC5 unicast link is released as indicated by upper layers.
For each PC5-RRC connection of unicast, one sidelink SRB (i.e. SL-SRB0) is used to transmit the PC5-S message(s) before the PC5-S security has been established. One sidelink SRB (i.e. SL-SRB1) is used to transmit the PC5-S messages to establish the PC5-S security. One sidelink SRB (i.e. SL-SRB2) is used to transmit the PC5-S messages after the PC5-S security has been established, which is protected. One sidelink SRB (i.e. SL-SRB3) is used to transmit the PC5-RRC signalling, which is protected and only sent after the PC5-S security has been established. One sidelink SRB (i.e. SL-SRB4) is used to transmit/receive the NR sidelink discovery messages.
For unicast of NR sidelink communication, AS security comprises of integrity protection of PC5 signalling (SL-SRB1, SL-SRB2 and SL-SRB3) and user data (SL-DRBs), and it further comprises of ciphering of PC5 signaling (SL-SRB1 only for the Direct Link Security Mode Complete message as specified in TS 24.587 [57] for V2X service or TS 24.554 [72] for Proximity-services, SL-SRB2 and SL-SRB3) and user data (SL-DRBs). The ciphering and integrity protection algorithms and parameters for a PC5 unicast link are exchanged by PC5-S messages in the upper layers as specified in TS 33.536 [60], and applied to the corresponding PC5-RRC connection in the AS. Once AS security is activated for a PC5 unicast link in the upper layers as specified in TS 33.536 [60], all messages on SL-SRB2 and SL-SRB3 and/or user data on SL-DRBs of the corresponding PC5-RRC connection are integrity protected and/or ciphered by the PDCP.
For unicast of NR sidelink communication, if the change of the key is indicated by the upper layers as specified in TS 24.587 [57] or TS 24.554 [72], UE re-establishes the PDCP entity of the SL-SRB1, SL-SRB2, SL-SRB3 and SL-DRBs on the corresponding PC5-RRC connection.
NOTE 1:	In case the configurations for NR sidelink communication are acquired via the E-UTRA, the configurations for NR sidelink communication in SIB12 and sl-ConfigDedicatedNR within RRCReconfiguration used in clause 5.8 are provided by the configurations in SystemInformationBlockType28 and sl-ConfigDedicatedForNR within RRCConnectionReconfiguration as specified in TS 36.331 [10], respectively.
NOTE 2:	In this release, there is one-to-one correspondence between the PC5-RRC connection and the PC5 unicast link as specified in TS 38.300[2].
NOTE 3:	All SL-DRBs related to the same PC5-RRC connection have the same activation/deactivation setting for ciphering and the same activation/deactivation setting for integrity protection as specified in TS 33.536 [60].
NOTE 4:	When integrity check failure concerning SL-SRB1 for a specific destination is detected, the UE sends an indication to the upper layers [57].
NOTE 5:	The selection of NULL algorithms means that the PC5 messages are considered protected for the purposes of being allowed to be sent or received.
5.8.2	Conditions for NR sidelink communication/discovery/positioning operation
The UE shall perform NR sidelink communication/discovery/positioning operation only if the conditions defined in this clause are met:
1>	if the UE's serving cell is suitable (RRC_IDLE or RRC_INACTIVE or RRC_CONNECTED); and if either the selected cell on the frequency used for NR sidelink communication/discovery/positioning operation belongs to the registered or equivalent PLMN as specified in TS 24.587 [57] or TS 24.554 [72] or the UE is out of coverage on the frequency used for NR sidelink communication/discovery/positioning operation as defined in TS 38.304 [20] and TS 36.304 [27]; or
1>	if the UE's serving cell (RRC_IDLE or RRC_CONNECTED) fulfils the conditions to support NR sidelink communication/discovery in limited service state as specified in TS 23.287 [55]; and if either the serving cell is on the frequency used for NR sidelink communication/discovery operation or the UE is out of coverage on the frequency used for NR sidelink communication/discovery operation as defined in TS 38.304 [20] and TS 36.304 [27]; or
1>	if the UE has no serving cell (RRC_IDLE).
5.8.3	Sidelink UE information for NR sidelink communication/discovery/positioning
5.8.3.1	General

Figure 5.8.3.1-1: Sidelink UE information for NR sidelink communication/discovery/positioning
The purpose of this procedure is to inform the network that the UE:
-	is interested or no longer interested to receive or transmit NR sidelink communication/discovery/positioning,
-	is requesting assignment or release of transmission resource for NR sidelink communication/discovery/positioning,
-	is reporting QoS parameters and QoS profile(s) related to NR sidelink communication,
-	is reporting mapped frequency(ies) for each QoS flow related to NR sidelink communication,
-	is reporting associated Tx Profile for each QoS flow related to NR sidelink groupcast and broadcast communication,
-	is reporting that a sidelink radio link failure, sidelink RRC reconfiguration failure or a sidelink carrier failure has been detected,
-	is reporting the sidelink UE capability information of the associated peer UE for unicast communication,
-	is reporting the RLC mode information of the sidelink data radio bearer(s) received from the associated peer UE for unicast communication,
-	is reporting the accepted sidelink DRX configuration received from the associated peer UE for NR sidelink unicast reception,
-	is reporting the sidelink DRX assistance information received from the associated peer UE for NR sidelink unicast transmission, when the UE is configured with sl-ScheduledConfig,
-	is reporting, for NR sidelink groupcast transmission, the sidelink DRX on/off indication for the associated Destination Layer-2 ID, when the UE is configured with sl-ScheduledConfig,
-	is reporting, for NR sidelink groupcast or broadcast reception, the Destination Layer-2 ID and QoS profile(s) associated with its interested services to which sidelink DRX is applied,
-	is reporting DRX configuration reject information from its associated peer UE for NR sidelink unicast transmission, when the UE is configured with sl-ScheduledConfig,
-	is reporting parameters related to U2N relay operation,
-	is reporting parameters related to U2U relay operation.
5.8.3.2	Initiation
A UE capable of NR sidelink communication or NR sidelink discovery or NR sidelink U2N relay operation or NR sidelink U2U relay operation or NR sidelink positioning that is in RRC_CONNECTED may initiate the procedure to indicate it is (interested in) receiving or transmitting NR sidelink communication or NR sidelink discovery or NR sidelink U2N relay operation or NR sidelink U2U relay operation or SL-PRS transmission/reception in several cases including upon successful connection establishment or resuming, upon change of interest, upon changing QoS profile(s), upon receiving UECapabilityInformationSidelink from the associated peer UE, upon RLC mode information updated from the associated peer UE or upon change to a PCell providing SIB12 including sl-ConfigCommonNR, or upon change to a PCell providing SIB23 including sl-PosConfigCommonNR. A UE capable of NR sidelink communication may initiate the procedure to request assignment of dedicated sidelink DRB configuration and transmission resources for NR sidelink communication transmission. A UE capable of NR sidelink communication may initiate the procedure to report to the network that a sidelink radio link failure, sidelink RRC reconfiguration failure or sidelink carrier failure has been declared. A UE capable of NR sidelink discovery may initiate the procedure to request assignment of dedicated resources for NR sidelink discovery transmission or NR sidelink discovery reception. A UE capable of U2N relay operation may initiate the procedure to report/update parameters for acting as U2N Relay UE or U2N Remote UE (including L2 U2N Remote UE's source L2 ID). A UE capable of U2U relay operation may initiate the procedure to report/update parameters for acting as U2U Relay UE or U2U Remote UE. A UE capable of NR sidelink positioning may initiate the procedure to request it is interested or no longer interested in either transmitting SL-PRS or receiving SL-PRS.
A UE capable of NR sidelink operation that is in RRC_CONNECTED may initiate the procedure to report the sidelink DRX configuration received from the associated peer UE for NR sidelink unicast reception, upon accepting the sidelink DRX configuration from the associated peer UE. A UE capable of NR sidelink communication that is configured with sl-ScheduledConfig and is performing sidelink unicast transmission may initiate the procedure to report the sidelink DRX assistance information or the sidelink DRX configuration reject information received from the associated peer UE, upon receiving either of them from the associated peer UE. A UE capable of NR sidelink communication that is configured with sl-ScheduledConfig and is performing sidelink groupcast transmission may initiate the procedure to report the sidelink DRX on/off indication for the associated Destination Layer-2 ID. A UE capable of NR sidelink communication that is in RRC_CONNECTED may initiate the procedure to report the frequency(ies) and Tx Profile associated with each QoS flow for NR sidelink groupcast or broadcast transmission. A UE capable of NR sidelink communication that is in RRC_CONNECTED may initiate the procedure to report the frequency(ies) associated with each QoS flow for NR sidelink unicast transmission.
A UE capable of NR sidelink operation that is in RRC_CONNECTED may initiate the procedure to report the Destination Layer-2 ID and QoS profile(s) associated with its interested service(s) that sidelink DRX is applied, for NR sidelink groupcast or broadcast reception.
Upon initiating this procedure, the UE shall:
1>	if SIB12 including sl-ConfigCommonNR is provided by the PCell:
2>	ensure having a valid version of SIB12 for the PCell;
2>	if configured by upper layers to receive NR sidelink communication on the frequency included in sl-FreqInfoList/sl-FreqInfoListSizeExt in SIB12 of the PCell:
3>	if the UE did not transmit a SidelinkUEInformationNR message since last entering RRC_CONNECTED state; or
3>	if since the last time the UE transmitted a SidelinkUEInformationNR message the UE connected to a PCell not providing SIB12 including sl-ConfigCommonNR; or
3>	if the last transmission of the SidelinkUEInformationNR message did not include sl-RxInterestedFreqList; or if the frequency configured by upper layers to receive NR sidelink communication on has changed since the last transmission of the SidelinkUEInformationNR message:
4>	initiate transmission of the SidelinkUEInformationNR message to indicate the NR sidelink communication reception frequency of interest in accordance with 5.8.3.3;
2>	else:
3>	if the last transmission of the SidelinkUEInformationNR message included sl-RxInterestedFreqList:
4>	initiate transmission of the SidelinkUEInformationNR message to indicate it is no longer interested in NR sidelink communication reception in accordance with 5.8.3.3;
2>	if configured by upper layers to transmit non-relay NR sidelink communication on the frequency included in sl-FreqInfoList/sl-FreqInfoListSizeExt in SIB12 of the PCell; or
2>	if configured by upper layer to transmit NR sidelink L3 U2U relay communication on the frequency included in sl-FreqInfoList in SIB12 of the PCell including sl-L3-U2U-RelayDiscovery:
3>	if the UE did not transmit a SidelinkUEInformationNR message since last entering RRC_CONNECTED state; or
3>	if since the last time the UE transmitted a SidelinkUEInformationNR message the UE connected to a PCell not providing SIB12 including sl-ConfigCommonNR; or
3>	if the last transmission of the SidelinkUEInformationNR message did not include sl-TxResourceReqList; or if the information carried by the sl-TxResourceReqList has changed since the last transmission of the SidelinkUEInformationNR message:
4>	initiate transmission of the SidelinkUEInformationNR message to indicate the NR sidelink communication transmission resources required by the UE in accordance with 5.8.3.3;
2>	else:
3>	if the last transmission of the SidelinkUEInformationNR message included sl-TxResourceReqList:
4>	initiate transmission of the SidelinkUEInformationNR message to indicate it no longer requires NR sidelink communication transmission resources in accordance with 5.8.3.3;
2>	if configured by upper layer to receive NR sidelink non-relay discovery messages on the frequency included in sl-FreqInfoList in SIB12 of the PCell including sl-NonRelayDiscovery:
3>	if the UE did not transmit a SidelinkUEInformationNR message since last entering RRC_CONNECTED state; or
3>	if since the last time the UE transmitted a SidelinkUEInformationNR message the UE connected to a PCell not providing SIB12 including sl-ConfigCommonNR or connected to a PCell providing SIB12 but not including sl-NonRelayDiscovery; or
3>	if the last transmission of the SidelinkUEInformationNR message did not include sl-RxInterestedFreqListDisc; or if the frequency configured by upper layers to receive NR sidelink non-relay discovery messages on has changed since the last transmission of the SidelinkUEInformationNR message:
4>	initiate transmission of the SidelinkUEInformationNR message to indicate the NR sidelink non-relay discovery reception frequency of interest in accordance with 5.8.3.3;
2>	else:
3>	if the last transmission of the SidelinkUEInformationNR message included sl-RxInterestedFreqListDisc:
4>	initiate transmission of the SidelinkUEInformationNR message to indicate it is no longer interested in NR sidelink non-relay discovery messages reception in accordance with 5.8.3.3;
2>	if configured by upper layer to receive NR sidelink L2 U2N relay discovery messages on the frequency included in sl-FreqInfoList in SIB12 of the PCell including sl-L2U2N-Relay; or if configured by upper layer to receive NR sidelink L3 U2N relay discovery messages on the frequency included in sl-FreqInfoList in SIB12 of the PCell including sl-L3U2N-RelayDiscovery; or
2>	if configured by upper layer to receive NR sidelink L2 U2U relay discovery messages on the frequency included in sl-FreqInfoList in SIB12 of the PCell including sl-L2-U2U-Relay; or
2>	if configured by upper layer to receive NR sidelink L3 U2U relay discovery messages on the frequency included in sl-FreqInfoList in SIB12 of the PCell including sl-L3-U2U-RelayDiscovery:
3>	if the UE did not transmit a SidelinkUEInformationNR message since last entering RRC_CONNECTED state; or
3>	if since the last time the UE transmitted a SidelinkUEInformationNR message the UE connected to a PCell not providing SIB12 including sl-ConfigCommonNR; or connected to a PCell providing SIB12 but not including sl-L2U2N-Relay in case of L2 U2N relay operation; or connected to a PCell providing SIB12 but not including sl-L3U2N-RelayDiscovery in case of L3 U2N relay operation; or
3>	if since the last time the UE transmitted a SidelinkUEInformationNR message the UE connected to a PCell providing SIB12 but not including sl-L2-U2U-Relay in case of L2 U2U relay operation; or
3>	if since the last time the UE transmitted a SidelinkUEInformationNR message the UE connected to a PCell providing SIB12 but not including sl-L3-U2U-RelayDiscovery in case of L3 U2U relay operation; or
3>	if the last transmission of the SidelinkUEInformationNR message did not include sl-RxInterestedFreqListDisc; or if the frequency configured by upper layers to receive NR sidelink relay discovery messages on has changed since the last transmission of the SidelinkUEInformationNR message:
4>	if the UE is capable of U2N Relay UE, and if SIB12 includes sl-RelayUE-ConfigCommon; or
4>	if the UE is selecting a U2N Relay UE / has a selected U2N Relay UE, and if SIB12 includes sl-RemoteUE-ConfigCommon; or
4>	if the UE is capable of U2U Relay UE, and if SIB12 includes sl-RelayUE-ConfigCommonU2U; or
4>	if the UE is selecting a U2U Relay UE / has a selected U2U Relay UE, and if SIB12 includes sl-RemoteUE-ConfigCommonU2U:
5>	initiate transmission of the SidelinkUEInformationNR message to indicate the NR sidelink relay discovery reception frequency of interest in accordance with 5.8.3.3;
2>	else:
3>	if the last transmission of the SidelinkUEInformationNR message included sl-RxInterestedFreqListDisc:
4>	initiate transmission of the SidelinkUEInformationNR message to indicate it is no longer interested in NR sidelink relay discovery messages reception in accordance with 5.8.3.3;
2>	if configured by upper layer to transmit NR sidelink non-relay discovery messages on the frequency included in sl-FreqInfoList in SIB12 of the PCell including sl-NonRelayDiscovery:
3>	if the UE did not transmit a SidelinkUEInformationNR message since last entering RRC_CONNECTED state; or
3>	if since the last time the UE transmitted a SidelinkUEInformationNR message the UE connected to a PCell not providing SIB12 including sl-ConfigCommonNR or connected to a PCell providing SIB12 but not including sl-NonRelayDiscovery; or
3>	if the last transmission of the SidelinkUEInformationNR message did not include sl-TxResourceReqListDisc; or if the information carried by the sl-TxResourceReqListDisc has changed since the last transmission of the SidelinkUEInformationNR message:
4>	initiate transmission of the SidelinkUEInformationNR message to indicate the NR sidelink non-relay discovery messages resources required by the UE in accordance with 5.8.3.3;
2>	else:
3>	if the last transmission of the SidelinkUEInformationNR message included sl-TxResourceReqListDisc:
4>	initiate transmission of the SidelinkUEInformationNR message to indicate it no longer requires NR sidelink non-relay discovery messages resources in accordance with 5.8.3.3;
2>	if configured by upper layer to transmit NR sidelink L2 U2N relay discovery messages on the frequency included in sl-FreqInfoList in SIB12 of the PCell including sl-L2U2N-Relay; or if configured by upper layer to transmit NR sidelink L3 U2N relay discovery messages on the frequency included in sl-FreqInfoList in SIB12 of the PCell including sl-L3U2N-RelayDiscovery; or
2>	if configured by upper layer to transmit NR sidelink L2 U2U relay discovery messages on the frequency included in sl-FreqInfoList in SIB12 of the PCell including sl-L2-U2U-Relay; or
2>	if configured by upper layer to transmit NR sidelink L3 U2U relay discovery messages on the frequency included in sl-FreqInfoList in SIB12 of the PCell including sl-L3-U2U-RelayDiscovery:
3>	if the UE did not transmit a SidelinkUEInformationNR message since last entering RRC_CONNECTED state; or
3>	if since the last time the UE transmitted a SidelinkUEInformationNR message the UE connected to a PCell not providing SIB12 including sl-ConfigCommonNR; or connected to a PCell providing SIB12 but not including sl-L2U2N-Relay in case of L2 U2N relay operation; or connected to a PCell providing SIB12 but not including sl-L3U2N-RelayDiscovery in case of L3 U2N relay operation; or
3>	if since the last time the UE transmitted a SidelinkUEInformationNR message the UE connected to a PCell providing SIB12 but not including sl-L2-U2U-Relay in case of L2 U2U relay operation;
3>	if since the last time the UE transmitted a SidelinkUEInformationNR message the UE connected to a PCell providing SIB12 but not including sl-L3-U2U-RelayDiscovery in case of L3 U2U relay operation; or
3>	if the last transmission of the SidelinkUEInformationNR message did not include sl-TxResourceReqListDisc; or if the information carried by the sl-TxResourceReqListDisc has changed since the last transmission of the SidelinkUEInformationNR message:
4>	if the UE is capable of U2N Relay UE, and if SIB12 includes sl-RelayUE-ConfigCommon, and if the U2N Relay UE threshold conditions as specified in 5.8.14.2 are met; or
4>	if the UE is selecting a U2N Relay UE / has a selected U2N Relay UE/ configured with measurement object associated to L2 U2N Relay UEs, and if SIB12 includes sl-RemoteUE-ConfigCommon, and if the U2N Remote UE threshold conditions as specified in 5.8.15.2 are met; or
4>	if the UE is capable of U2U Relay UE, and if SIB12 includes sl-RelayUE-ConfigCommonU2U, and if the U2U Relay UE threshold conditions as specified in 5.8.16.2 are met; or
4>	if the UE is selecting a U2U Relay UE / has a selected U2U Relay UE, and if SIB12 includes sl-RemoteUE-ConfigCommonU2U, and if the U2U Remote UE threshold conditions as specified in 5.8.17.2 are met:
5>	initiate transmission of the SidelinkUEInformationNR message to indicate the NR sidelink relay discovery messages resources required by the UE in accordance with 5.8.3.3;
2>	else:
3>	if the last transmission of the SidelinkUEInformationNR message included sl-TxResourceReqListDisc:
4>	initiate transmission of the SidelinkUEInformationNR message to indicate it no longer requires NR sidelink relay discovery messages resources in accordance with 5.8.3.3;
2>	if configured by upper layer to transmit NR sidelink L2 U2N relay communication on the frequency included in sl-FreqInfoList in SIB12 of the PCell including sl-L2U2N-Relay; or if configured by upper layer to transmit NR sidelink L3 U2N relay communication on the frequency included in sl-FreqInfoList in SIB12 of the PCell including sl-L3U2N-RelayDiscovery; or
2>	if configured by upper layer to transmit NR sidelink L2 U2U relay communication on the frequency included in sl-FreqInfoList in SIB12 of the PCell including sl-L2-U2U-Relay:
3>	if the UE did not transmit a SidelinkUEInformationNR message since last entering RRC_CONNECTED state; or
3>	if since the last time the UE transmitted a SidelinkUEInformationNR message the UE connected to a PCell not providing SIB12 including sl-ConfigCommonNR; or connected to a PCell providing SIB12 but not including sl-L2U2N-Relay in case of L2 U2N relay operation; or connected to a PCell providing SIB12 but not including sl-L3U2N-RelayDiscovery in case of L3 U2N relay operation; or
3>	if since the last time the UE transmitted a SidelinkUEInformationNR message the UE connected to a PCell providing SIB12 but not including sl-L2-U2U-Relay in case of L2 U2U relay operation; or
3>	if the last transmission of the SidelinkUEInformationNR message did not include sl-TxResourceReqL2U2N-Relay; or if the information carried by the sl-TxResourceReqL2U2N-Relay has changed since the last transmission of the SidelinkUEInformationNR message; or if the last transmission of the SidelinkUEInformationNR message did not include sl-TxResourceReqL3U2N-Relay; or if the information carried by the sl-TxResourceReqL3U2N-Relay has changed since the last transmission of the SidelinkUEInformationNR message; or
3>	if the last transmission of the SidelinkUEInformationNR message did not include sl-TxResourceReqL2-U2U; or if the information carried by the sl-TxResourceReqL2-U2U has changed since the last transmission of the SidelinkUEInformationNR message; or
3>	if configured by upper layers not to transmit either NR sidelink L2 U2N relay communication or NR sidelink L3 U2N relay communication, and if the last transmission of the SidelinkUEInformationNR message includes both sl-TxResourceReqL2U2N-Relay and sl-TxResourceReqL3U2N-Relay:
4>	if the UE is capable of U2N Relay UE; or
4>	if the UE is selecting a U2N Relay UE / has a selected U2N Relay UE; or
4>	if the UE is capable of L2 U2U Relay UE; or
4>	if the UE is selecting a L2 U2U Relay UE / has a selected L2 U2U Relay UE:
5>	initiate transmission of the SidelinkUEInformationNR message to indicate the NR sidelink relay communication transmission resources required by the UE in accordance with 5.8.3.3;
2>	else:
3>	if the last transmission of the SidelinkUEInformationNR message included sl-TxResourceReqL2U2N-Relay or sl-TxResourceReqL3U2N-Relay or sl-TxResourceReqL2-U2U:
4>	initiate transmission of the SidelinkUEInformationNR message to indicate it no longer requires NR sidelink relay communication transmission resources in accordance with 5.8.3.3;
2>	if configured by upper layers to perform NR sidelink reception on the frequency included in sl-FreqInfoList/sl-FreqInfoListSizeExt in SIB12 of the PCell and if sl-DRX-ConfigCommonGC-BC is included in SIB12-IEs:
3>	if the UE received a sidelink DRX configuration in the RRCReconfigurationSidelink message for NR sidelink unicast reception from the associated peer UE and the UE accepted the sidelink DRX configuration:
4>	if the UE did not transmit a SidelinkUEInformationNR message since last entering RRC_CONNECTED state; or
4>	if since the last time the UE transmitted a SidelinkUEInformationNR message the UE connected to a PCell not providing SIB12 including sl-DRX-ConfigCommonGC-BC; or
4>	if the last transmission of the SidelinkUEInformationNR message did not include sl-RxDRX-ReportList; or if the information carried by sl-RxDRX-ReportList has changed since the last transmission of the SidelinkUEInformationNR message:
5>	initiate transmission of the SidelinkUEInformationNR message to report the sidelink DRX configuration in accordance with 5.8.3.3;
3>	else:
4>	if the last transmission of the SidelinkUEInformationNR message included sl-RxDRX-ReportList:
5>	initiate transmission of the SidelinkUEInformationNR message to indicate the sidelink DRX configuration is no longer used in accordance with 5.8.3.3;
3>	if the UE is performing NR sidelink groupcast or broadcast reception and is interested in a service that sidelink DRX is applied:
4>	if the UE did not transmit a SidelinkUEInformationNR message since last entering RRC_CONNECTED state; or
4>	if since the last time the UE transmitted a SidelinkUEInformationNR message the UE connected to a PCell not providing SIB12 including sl-DRX-ConfigCommonGC-BC; or
4>	if the last transmission of the SidelinkUEInformationNR message did not include sl-RxInterestedGC-BC-DestList; or if the information carried by sl-RxInterestedGC-BC-DestList has changed since the last transmission of the SidelinkUEInformationNR message:
5>	initiate transmission of the SidelinkUEInformationNR message to report the Destination Layer-2 ID and QoS profile(s) associated with the service(s) in accordance with 5.8.3.3;
3>	else:
4>	if the last transmission of the SidelinkUEInformationNR message included sl-RxInterestedGC-BC-DestList:
5>	initiate transmission of the SidelinkUEInformationNR message to indicate it is no longer interested in the service that sidelink DRX is applied in accordance with 5.8.3.3;
2>	if configured by upper layers to perform NR sidelink transmission on the frequency included in sl-FreqInfoList in SIB12 of the PCell and if sl-DRX-ConfigCommonGC-BC is included in SIB12-IEs and if the UE is configured with sl-ScheduledConfig:
3>	if the UE received a sidelink DRX assistance information or a sidelink DRX configuration reject information from the associated peer UE for NR sidelink unicast transmission:
4>	if the UE did not transmit a SidelinkUEInformationNR message since last entering RRC_CONNECTED state; or
4>	if since the last time the UE transmitted a SidelinkUEInformationNR message the UE connected to a PCell not providing SIB12 including sl-DRX-ConfigCommonGC-BC; or
4>	if the last transmission of the SidelinkUEInformationNR message did not include sl-DRX-InfoFromRxList, or sl-FailureList; or if the information carried by sl-DRX-InfoFromRxList, or sl-FailureList has changed since the last transmission of the SidelinkUEInformationNR message:
5>	initiate transmission of the SidelinkUEInformationNR message to report the sidelink DRX assistance information or the sidelink DRX configuration reject information in accordance with 5.8.3.3;
NOTE:	After including the SL-DRX reject information in sl-FailureList in the last transmission of the SidelinkUEInformationNR message, it is up to UE implementation to consider another sidelink DRX rejection of a new SL DRX configuration from the same associated peer UE as "change" of sl-FailureList.
3>	if the UE is performing NR sidelink groupcast transmission:
4>	if the UE did not transmit a SidelinkUEInformationNR message since last entering RRC_CONNECTED state; or
4>	if since the last time the UE transmitted a SidelinkUEInformationNR message the UE connected to a PCell not providing SIB12 including sl-DRX-ConfigCommonGC-BC; or
4>	if the last transmission of the SidelinkUEInformationNR message did not include sl-DRX-Indication; or if the information carried by sl-DRX-Indication has changed since the last transmission of the SidelinkUEInformationNR message:
5>	initiate transmission of the SidelinkUEInformationNR message to report sidelink DRX on/off indication for the corresponding destination in accordance with 5.8.3.3;
1>	if SIB23 including sl-PosConfigCommonNR is provided by the PCell:
2>	ensure having a valid version of SIB23 for the PCell;
2>	if configured to perform SL-PRS measurement on the frequency included in sl-PosFreqInfoList in SIB23 of the PCell:
3>	if the UE did not transmit a SidelinkUEInformationNR message since last entering RRC_CONNECTED state; or
3>	if since the last time the UE transmitted a SidelinkUEInformationNR message the UE connected to a PCell not providing SIB23 including sl-PosConfigCommonNR; or
3>	if the last transmission of the SidelinkUEInformationNR message did not include sl-PosRxInterestedFreqList; or if the frequency configured to receive SL-PRS has changed since the last transmission of the SidelinkUEInformationNR message:
4>	initiate transmission of the SidelinkUEInformationNR message to indicate the frequency of interest for SL-PRS reception in accordance with 5.8.3.3;
2>	else:
3>	if the last transmission of the SidelinkUEInformationNR message included sl-PosRxInterestedFreqList:
4>	initiate transmission of the SidelinkUEInformationNR message to indicate it is no longer interested in SL-PRS reception in accordance with 5.8.3.3;
2>	if configured to transmit SL-PRS on the frequency included in sl-PosFreqInfoList in SIB23 of the PCell:
3>	if the UE did not transmit a SidelinkUEInformationNR message since last entering RRC_CONNECTED state; or
3>	if since the last time the UE transmitted a SidelinkUEInformationNR message the UE connected to a PCell not providing SIB23 including sl-PosConfigCommonNR; or
3>	if the last transmission of the SidelinkUEInformationNR message did not include sl-PosTxResourceReqList; or if the information carried by the sl-PosTxResourceReqList has changed since the last transmission of the SidelinkUEInformationNR message:
4>	initiate transmission of the SidelinkUEInformationNR message to indicate the NR sidelink positioning transmission resources required by the UE in accordance with 5.8.3.3;
2>	else:
3>	if the last transmission of the SidelinkUEInformationNR message included sl-PosTxResourceReqList:
4>	initiate transmission of the SidelinkUEInformationNR message to indicate it no longer requires NR sidelink positioning transmission resources in accordance with 5.8.3.3;
5.8.3.3	Actions related to transmission of SidelinkUEInformationNR message
The UE shall set the contents of the SidelinkUEInformationNR message as follows and shall include all concerned information, irrespective of what triggered the procedure:
1>	if the UE initiates the procedure to indicate it is (no more) interested to receive NR sidelink communication/positioning; or
1>	if the UE initiates the procedure to request (configuration/ release) of NR sidelink communication/positioning transmission resources or to report to the network that a sidelink radio link failure, sidelink RRC reconfiguration failure or sidelink carrier failure has been declared; or
1>	if the UE initiates the procedure to report to the network the sidelink DRX configuration for NR sidelink unicast reception; or
1>	if the UE initiates the procedure to report to the network the sidelink DRX assistance information or the sidelink DRX configuration reject information for NR sidelink unicast transmission; or
1>	if the UE initiates the procedure to report to the network the Destination Layer-2 ID and QoS profile(s) associated with its interested service(s) that sidelink DRX is applied for NR sidelink groupcast or broadcast reception; or
1>	if the UE initiates the procedure to report to the network the Destination Layer-2 ID and the sidelink DRX on/off indication for the corresponding destination for NR sidelink groupcast transmission; or
1>	if the UE initiates the procedure to indicate it is (no more) interested to receive NR sidelink discovery messages; or
1>	if the UE initiates the procedure to request (configuration/ release) of NR sidelink discovery messages transmission resources; or
1>	if the UE initiates the procedure to request (configuration/ release) of NR sidelink U2N or U2U relay communication transmission resources or report other parameters related to U2N or U2U relay operation:
2>	if SIB12 including sl-ConfigCommonNR is provided by the PCell:
3>	if configured by upper layers to receive NR sidelink communication:
4>	include sl-RxInterestedFreqList and set it to the frequency for NR sidelink communication reception;
3>	if configured by upper layers to transmit non-relay NR sidelink communication and/or to transmit NR sidelink relay communication; or
3>	if configured by upper layers to transmit NR sidelink L3 U2U relay communication and SIB12 includes sl-L3-U2U-RelayDiscovery:
4>	include sl-TxResourceReqList and set its fields (if needed) as follows for each destination for which it requests network to assign NR sidelink communication resource:
5>	set sl-DestinationIdentity to the destination identity configured by upper layer for NR sidelink communication transmission;
5>	set sl-CastType to the cast type of the associated destination identity configured by the upper layer for the NR sidelink communication transmission;
5>	set sl-RLC-ModeIndicationList to include the RLC mode(s) and optionally QoS profile(s) of the sidelink QoS flow(s) of the associated RLC mode(s), if the associated bi-directional sidelink DRB(s) have been established due to the configuration by RRCReconfigurationSidelink;
5>	set sl-QoS-InfoList to include QoS profile(s) of the sidelink QoS flow(s) of the associated destination configured by the upper layer for the NR sidelink communication transmission;
5>	set sl-TxInterestedFreqList to indicate the frequency of the associated destination for NR sidelink communication transmission;
5>	set sl-TypeTxSyncList to the current synchronization reference type used on the associated sl-TxInterestedFreqList for NR sidelink communication transmission;
5>	set sl-CapabilityInformationSidelink to include UECapabilityInformationSidelink message, if any, received from the associated peer UE;
5>	if sl-FreqInfoListSizeExt is included in SIB12-IEs:
6>	set sl-QoS-InfoList to include the frequency(ies), and Tx Profile, if any, mapped to the sidelink QoS flow(s) of the associated destination configured by the upper layer for the NR sidelink groupcast and broadcast communication transmission;
4>	if a sidelink radio link failure or a sidelink RRC reconfiguration failure has been declared, according to clauses 5.8.9.3 and 5.8.9.1.8, respectively;
5>	include sl-FailureList and set its fields as follows for each destination for which it reports the NR sidelink communication failure:
6>	set sl-DestinationIdentity to the destination identity configured by upper layer for NR sidelink communication transmission;
6>	if the sidelink RLF is detected as specified in clause 5.8.9.3:
7>	set sl-Failure as rlf for the associated destination for the NR sidelink communication transmission;
6>	else if RRCReconfigurationFailureSidelink is received:
7>	set sl-Failure as configFailure for the associated destination for the NR sidelink communication transmission;
4>	if a sidelink carrier failure has been indicated by MAC layer;
5>	include sl-CarrierFailureList and set its fields as follows for each destination for which it reports the sidelink carrier failure:
6>	set sl-DestinationIdentity to the destination identity for which the concerned sidelink carrier failure is indicated;
6>	set sl-CarrierFailure to include the concerned carrier for which the sidelink carrier failure is indicated;
3>	if SIB12 includes sl-NonRelayDiscovery and if configured by upper layers to receive NR sidelink non-relay discovery messages, or if SIB12 includes sl-L2U2N-Relay and if configured by upper layers to receive NR sidelink L2 U2N relay discovery messages, or if SIB12 includes sl-L3U2N-RelayDiscovery and if configured by upper layers to receive NR sidelink L3 U2N relay discovery messages; or
3>	if SIB12 includes sl-L2-U2U-Relay and if configured by upper layers to receive NR sidelink L2 U2U relay discovery messages; or
3>	if SIB12 includes sl-L3-U2U-RelayDiscovery and if configured by upper layers to receive NR sidelink L3 U2U relay discovery messages:
4>	include sl-RxInterestedFreqListDisc and set it to the frequency for NR sidelink discovery messages reception;
3>	if SIB12 includes sl-L2U2N-Relay and the UE is capable of L2 U2N remote UE:
4>	include sl-SourceIdentityRemoteUE and set it to the source identity configured by upper layer for NR sidelink L2 U2N relay communication transmission;
3>	if SIB12 includes sl-NonRelayDiscovery and if configured by upper layers to transmit NR sidelink non-relay discovery messages, or if SIB12 includes sl-L2U2N-Relay and if configured by upper layers to transmit NR sidelink L2 U2N relay discovery messages, or if SIB12 includes sl-L3U2N-RelayDiscovery and if configured by upper layers to transmit NR sidelink L3 U2N relay discovery messages; or
3>	if SIB12 includes sl-L2-U2U-Relay and if configured by upper layers to transmit NR sidelink L2 U2U relay discovery messages; or
3>	if SIB12 includes sl-L3-U2U-RelayDiscovery and if configured by upper layers to transmit NR sidelink L3 U2U relay discovery messages:
4>	include sl-TxResourceReqListDisc and set its fields (if needed) as follows for each destination for which it requests network to assign NR sidelink discovery messages resource:
5>	set sl-DestinationIdentityDisc to the destination identity configured by upper layer for NR sidelink discovery messages transmission;
5>	if the UE is acting as L2 U2N Relay UE:
6>	set sl-SourceIdentityRelayUE to the source identity configured by upper layer for NR sidelink L2 U2N relay discovery messages transmission;
5>	set sl-CastTypeDisc to the cast type of the associated destination identity for the NR sidelink discovery messages transmission;
5>	set sl-TxInterestedFreqListDisc to indicate the frequency of the associated destination for NR sidelink discovery messages transmission;
5>	set sl-TypeTxSyncListDisc to the current synchronization reference type used on the associated sl-TxInterestedFreqListDisc for NR sidelink discovery messages transmission;
5>	set sl-DiscoveryType to the current discovery type of the associated destination identity configured by the upper layer for NR sidelink discovery messages transmission;
5>	if the UE is acting as L2/L3 U2U Relay UE:
6>	include ue-TypeU2U and set it to relayUE;
5>	if the UE is acting as L2/L3 U2U Remote UE:
6>	include ue-TypeU2U and set it to remoteUE;
3>	if SIB12 includes sl-L2U2N-Relay and if configured by upper layers to transmit NR sidelink L2 U2N relay communication and the UE is acting as L2 U2N Relay UE:
4>	include sl-TxResourceReqL2U2N-Relay in sl-TxResourceReqListCommRelay and set its fields (if needed) as follows for each destination for which it requests network to assign NR sidelink L2 U2N relay communication resource:
5>	set sl-DestinationIdentityL2U2N to the destination identity configured by upper layer for NR sidelink L2 U2N relay communication transmission;
5>	set sl-TxInterestedFreqListL2U2N to indicate the frequency of the associated destination for NR sidelink L2 U2N relay communication transmission;
5>	set sl-TypeTxSyncListL2U2N to the current synchronization reference type used on the associated sl-TxInterestedFreqListL2U2N for NR sidelink L2 U2N relay communication transmission;
5>	set sl-LocalID-Request to request local ID for L2 U2N Remote UE transiting to RRC_CONNECTED or in RRC_CONNECTED state;
5>	set sl-PagingIdentityRemoteUE to the paging UE ID received from peer L2 U2N Remote UE, if it is not released as in 5.8.9.8.3;
5>	set sl-CapabilityInformationSidelink to include UECapabilityInformationSidelink message, if any, received from peer UE;
4>	include ue-Type and set it to relayUE;
3>	if SIB12 includes sl-L2U2N-Relay and if configured by upper layers to transmit NR sidelink L2 U2N relay communication and the UE has a selected L2 U2N Relay UE:
4>	include sl-TxResourceReqL2U2N-Relay in sl-TxResourceReqListCommRelay and set its fields (if needed) as follows to request network to assign NR sidelink L2 U2N relay communication resource:
5>	set sl-TxInterestedFreqListL2U2N to indicate the frequency of the associated destination for NR sidelink L2 U2N relay communication transmission;
5>	set sl-TypeTxSyncListL2U2N to the current synchronization reference type used on the associated sl-TxInterestedFreqListL2U2N for NR sidelink L2 U2N relay communication transmission;
5>	set sl-CapabilityInformationSidelink to include UECapabilityInformationSidelink message, if any, received from peer UE;
4>	include ue-Type and set it to remoteUE;
3>	if SIB12 includes sl-L3U2N-RelayDiscovery and if configured by upper layers to transmit NR sidelink L3 U2N relay communication:
4>	include sl-TxResourceReqL3U2N-Relay in sl-TxResourceReqListCommRelay and set its fields (if needed) as follows for each destination for which it requests network to assign NR sidelink L3 U2N relay communication resource:
5>	set sl-DestinationIdentity to the destination identity configured by upper layer for NR sidelink L3 U2N relay communication transmission;
5>	set sl-CastType to the cast type of the associated destination identity configured by the upper layer for the NR sidelink L3 U2N relay communication transmission;
5>	set sl-RLC-ModeIndicationList to include the RLC mode(s) and optionally QoS profile(s) of the sidelink QoS flow(s) of the associated RLC mode(s), if the associated bi-directional sidelink DRB(s) have been established due to the configuration by RRCReconfigurationSidelink;
5>	set sl-QoS-InfoList to include QoS profile(s) of the sidelink QoS flow(s) of the associated destination configured by the upper layer for the NR sidelink L3 U2N relay communication transmission;
5>	set sl-TxInterestedFreqList to indicate the frequency of the associated destination for NR sidelink L3 U2N relay communication transmission;
5>	set sl-TypeTxSyncList to the current synchronization reference type used on the associated sl-TxInterestedFreqList for NR sidelink L3 U2N relay communication transmission;
5>	set sl-CapabilityInformationSidelink to include UECapabilityInformationSidelink message, if any, received from peer UE;
4>	include ue-Type and set it to relayUE if the UE is acting as NR sidelink L3 U2N Relay UE or to remoteUE otherwise;
3>	if SIB12 includes sl-L2-U2U-Relay and if configured by upper layers to transmit NR sidelink L2 U2U relay communication and the UE is acting as L2 U2U Relay UE:
4>	include sl-TxResourceReqL2-U2U and set its fields (if needed) as follows for each destination for which it requests network to assign NR sidelink L2 U2U relay communication resource:
5>	set sl-DestinationIdentityL2-U2U to the destination identity configured by upper layer for NR sidelink L2 U2U relay communication transmission to the target L2 U2U Remote UE;
5>	set sl-TxInterestedFreqListL2-U2U to indicate the frequency of the associated destination for NR sidelink L2 U2U relay communication transmission;
5>	set sl-TypeTxSyncListL2-U2U to the current synchronization reference type used on the associated sl-InterestedFreqListL2-U2U for NR sidelink L2 U2U relay communication transmission;
5>	set sl-CapabilityInformationSidelink to include UECapabilityInformationSidelink message, if any, received from the target L2 U2U Remote UE;
5>	include sl-U2U-InfoList and set its fields (if needed) for each entry as follows, to report the related information of the connected L2 U2U Remote UEs:
6>	include the source L2 U2U Remote UE's L2 ID in sl-SourceUE-Identity;
6>	include sl-PerSLRB-QoS-InfoList, with each entry including the per-SLRB second-hop QoS profile and the corresponding sl-RemoteUE-SLRB-Identity which is set to the same value as the sl-E2E-SLRB-Index received in UEInformationRequestSidelink message from the L2 U2U Remote UE for the same end-to-end SLRB;
5>	set sl-RLC-ModeIndicationListL2-U2U to include the RLC mode(s), if the associated bi-directional PC5 Relay RLC channel(s) has been established due to the configuration by RRCReconfigurationSidelink;
3>	if SIB12 includes sl-L2-U2U-Relay and if configured by upper layers to transmit NR sidelink L2 U2U relay communication and the UE has a selected L2 U2U Relay UE:
4>	include sl-TxResourceReqL2-U2U and set its fields (if needed) as follows to request network to assign NR sidelink L2 U2U relay communication resource:
5>	set sl-DestinationIdentityL2-U2U to the destination identity configured by upper layer for NR sidelink L2 U2U relay communication transmission to L2 U2U Relay UE;
5>	set sl-TxInterestedFreqListL2-U2U to indicate the frequency of the associated destination for NR sidelink L2 U2U relay communication transmission;
5>	set sl-TypeTxSyncListL2-U2U to the current synchronization reference type used on the associated sl-InterestedFreqListL2-U2U for NR sidelink L2 U2U relay communication transmission;
5>	set sl-CapabilityInformationSidelink to include UECapabilityInformationSidelink message received from L2 U2U Relay UE, if any;
5>	include sl-U2U-InfoList and set its fields (if needed) for each entry as follows to report the related end-to-end and the first hop information for the end-to-end PC5 connection with each target L2 U2U Remote UE:
6>	set sl-TargetUE-Identity to the destination identity configured by upper layer for NR sidelink L2 U2U relay communication transmission to the target L2 U2U Remote UE;
6>	set sl-E2E-QoS-InfoList to include end-to-end QoS profile(s) of the sidelink QoS flow(s) of the associated destination configured by the upper layer for the NR sidelink L2 U2U relay communication transmission to the target L2 U2U Remote UE;
6>	set sl-PerHop-QoS-InfoList to include the first-hop split PDB of the sidelink QoS flow(s) received from the sl-SplitQoS-InfoListPC5 in UEInformationResponseSidelink message for the associated destination in accordance with the received sl-TargetUE-Identity;
6>	set sl-CapabilityInformationTargetRemoteUE to include the related UE capability information received from the target L2 U2U Remote UE, if any;
3>	if sl-DRX-ConfigCommonGC-BC is included in SIB12-IEs:
4>	if configured by upper layers to perform NR sidelink reception:
5>	include sl-RxDRX-ReportList and set its fields (if needed) as follows for each destination for which it reports to network:
6>	set sl-DRX-ConfigFromTx to include the accepted sidelink DRX configuration of the associated destination for NR sidelink unicast communication, if received from the associated peer UE;
5>	include sl-RxInterestedGC-BC-DestList and set its fields (if needed) as follows for each Destination Layer-2 ID for which it reports to network:
6>	set sl-RxInterestedQoS-InfoList to include the QoS profile of its interested service(s) that sidelink DRX is applied for the associated destination for NR sidelink groupcast or broadcast reception;
NOTE 1:	It is up to UE implementation to set the QoS profile in sl-RxInterestedQoS-InfoList for reception of NR sidelink discovery message or ProSe Direct Link Establishment Request message as described in TS 24.554 [72], or for reception of Direct Link Establishment Request message as described in TS 24.587 [57].
6>	set sl-DestinationIdentity to the associated destination identity configured by upper layer for NR sidelink groupcast or broadcast reception;
4>	if configured by upper layers to perform NR sidelink transmission and configured with sl-ScheduledConfig:
5>	include sl-TxResourceReqList and/or sl-TxResourceReqListCommRelay and/or sl-FailureList and set its fields (if needed) as follows for each destination for which it reports to network:
6>	set sl-DRX-InfoFromRxList to include the sidelink DRX assistance information of the associated destination, if any, received from the associated peer UE;
6>	if the RRCReconfigurationCompleteSidelink message includes the sl-DRX-ConfigReject:
7>	set sl-Failure as drxReject-v1710 for the associated destination for the NR sidelink communication transmission;
6>	set sl-DRX-Indication to include the sidelink DRX on/off indication for the associated destination for NR sidelink groupcast transmission;
3>	if SIB12 includes sl-PRS-ResourcesSharedSL-PRS-RP:
4>	if configured to perform SL-PRS measurements:
5>	include sl-PosRxInterestedFreqList2 and set it to the frequency configured with sl-PRS-ResourcesSharedSL-PRS-RP for SL-PRS reception;
4>	if configured to transmit SL-PRS:
5>	include sl-PosTxResourceReqList and set its fields (if needed) as follows for each destination for which it requests network to assign SL-PRS resource:
6>	set sl-PosDestinationIdentity to the destination identity configured by upper layer for SL-PRS transmission;
6>	set sl-PosCastType to the cast type of the associated destination identity configured by the upper layer for SL-PRS transmission;
6>	set sl-PosTxInterestedFreqList2 to indicate the frequency configured with sl-PRS-ResourcesSharedSL-PRS-RP of the associated destination for SL-PRS transmission;
6>	set sl-PosTypeTxSyncList to the current synchronization reference type used on the associated sl-PosRxInterestedFreqList for SL-PRS transmission;
6>	set sl-PosQoS-InfoList to include the SL-PRS transmission QoS profile;
5>	include sl-TxResourceReqList and set its fields (if needed) as follows for each destination for which it requests network to assign SL-PRS resource:
6>	set sl-PosDestinationIdentity to the destination identity configured by upper layer for NR sidelink positioning transmission;
6>	set sl-CapabilityInformationSidelink to include UECapabilityInformationSidelink message, if any, received from the associated peer UE;
2>	if SIB23 including sl-PosConfigCommonNR is provided by the PCell;
3>	if configured to transmit SL-PRS:
4>	include sl-PosTxResourceReqList and set its fields (if needed) as follows for each destination for which it requests network to assign SL-PRS resource:
5>	set sl-PosDestinationIdentity to the destination identity configured by upper layer for SL-PRS transmission;
5>	set sl-PosCastType to the cast type of the associated destination identity configured by the upper layer for the SL-PRS transmission;
5>	set sl-PosTxInterestedFreqList to indicate the frequency of the associated destination for SL-PRS transmission;
5>	set sl-PosTypeTxSyncList to the current synchronization reference type used on the associated sl-PosRxInterestedFreqList for SL-PRS transmission;
5>	set sl-PosQoS-InfoList to include the SL-PRS transmission QoS profile;
5>	set sl-CapabilityInformationSidelink to include UECapabilityInformationSidelink message, if any, received from the associated peer UE;
3>	if configured to perform SL-PRS measurements;
4>	include sl-PosRxInterestedFreqList and set it to the frequency for SL-PRS reception;
1>	if the UE initiates the procedure while connected to an E-UTRA PCell:
2>	submit the SidelinkUEInformationNR to lower layers via SRB1, embedded in E-UTRA RRC message ULInformationTransferIRAT as specified in TS 36.331 [10], clause 5.6.28;
1>	else:
2>	submit the SidelinkUEInformationNR message to lower layers for transmission.
NOTE 2:	When multiple lists are reported in SidelinkUEInformationNR, a UE can report up to maxNrofSL-Dest-r16 SL destinations in sl-TxResourceReqList, sl-TxResourceReqListDisc and sl-TxResourceReqListCommRelay in total.
5.8.4	Void
5.8.5	Sidelink synchronisation information transmission for NR sidelink communication/discovery/positioning
5.8.5.1	General

Figure 5.8.5.1-1: Synchronisation information transmission for NR sidelink communication/discovery/positioning, in (partial) coverage

Figure 5.8.5.1-2: Synchronisation information transmission for NR sidelink communication/discovery/positioning, out of coverage
The purpose of this procedure is to provide synchronisation information to a UE. This procedure also applies to NR sidelink discovery.
5.8.5.2	Initiation
A UE capable of NR sidelink communication/discovery/positioning and SLSS/PSBCH transmission shall, when transmitting NR sidelink communication/discovery/positioning, and if the conditions for NR sidelink communication/discovery/positioning operation are met and when the following conditions are met:
1>	if in coverage on the frequency used for NR sidelink communication/discovery/positioning, as defined in TS 38.304 [20]; and has selected GNSS or the cell as synchronization reference as defined in 5.8.6.3; or
1>	if out of coverage on the frequency used for NR sidelink communication/discovery/positioning, and the frequency used to transmit NR sidelink communication/discovery is included in sl-FreqInfoToAddModList/sl-FreqInfoToAddModListExt in sl-ConfigDedicatedNR within RRCReconfiguration message or included in sl-FreqInfoList/sl-FreqInfoListSizeExt within SIB12; and has selected GNSS or the cell as synchronization reference as defined in 5.8.6.3:
2>	if sl-SyncFreqList is neither included in RRCReconfiguration nor in SIB12; or
2>	if sl-SyncFreqList is included in RRCReconfiguration or in SIB12; and if none of the frequency(ies) selected as specified in TS 38.321 [3] is included in the sl-SyncFreqList or the concerned frequency is selected as the synchronisation carrier frequency in accordance with 5.8.6.2; or
2>	if sl-SyncFreqList and sl-SyncTxMultiFreq are included in RRCReconfiguration or in SIB12; and if the concerned frequency has been selected for NR sidelink communication transmission as specified in TS 38.321 [3] and is included in sl-SyncFreqList; and if the UE has selected a frequency other than the concerned frequency as the synchronisation carrier frequency in accordance with 5.8.6.2; and if sl-SyncTxDisabled corresponding to the concerned frequency is not configured in RRCReconfiguration or in SIB12:
3>	if in RRC_CONNECTED; and if networkControlledSyncTx is configured and set to on; or
3>	if networkControlledSyncTx is not configured; and for the concerned frequency syncTxThreshIC is configured; and the RSRP measurement of the reference cell, selected as defined in 5.8.6.3, for NR sidelink communication/discovery transmission is below the value of syncTxThreshIC:
4>	transmit sidelink SSB on the frequency used for NR sidelink communication/discovery in accordance with 5.8.5.3 and TS 38.211 [16], including the transmission of SLSS as specified in 5.8.5.3 and transmission of MasterInformationBlockSidelink as specified in 5.8.9.4.3;
1>	else:
2>	if sl-SyncFreqList is not included in SL-PreconfigurationNR; or
2>	if sl-SyncFreqList is included in SL-PreconfigurationNR, and if none of the frequency(ies) selected as specified in TS 38.321 [3] is included in the sl-SyncFreqList or the concerned frequency is selected as the synchronisation carrier frequency in accordance with 5.8.6.2; or
2>	if sl-SyncFreqList and sl-SyncTxMultiFreq are included in SL-PreconfigurationNR, and if the concerned frequency has been selected for NR sidelink communication transmission as specified in TS 38.321 [3] and included in sl-SyncFreqList; and if the UE has selected a frequency other than the concerned frequency as the synchronisation carrier frequency in accordance with 5.8.6.2; and if sl-SyncTxDisabled corresponding to the concerned frequency is not configured in SL-PreconfigurationNR:
3>	for the frequency used for NR sidelink communication/discovery, if syncTxThreshOoC is included in SidelinkPreconfigNR; and the UE is not directly synchronized to GNSS, and the UE has no selected SyncRef UE or the PSBCH-RSRP measurement result of the selected SyncRef UE is below the value of syncTxThreshOoC; or
3>	for the frequency used for NR sidelink communication/discovery, if the UE selects GNSS as the synchronization reference source:
4>	transmit sidelink SSB on the frequency used for NR sidelink communication/discovery in accordance with 5.8.5.3 and TS 38.211 [16], including the transmission of SLSS as specified in 5.8.5.3 and transmission of MasterInformationBlockSidelink as specified in 5.8.9.4.3;
5.8.5.3	Transmission of SLSS
The UE shall select the SLSSID and the slot in which to transmit SLSS as follows:
1>	if triggered by NR sidelink communication/discovery/positioning and in coverage on the frequency used for NR sidelink communication/discovery/positioning, as defined in TS 38.304 [20]; or
1>	if triggered by NR sidelink communication/discovery/positioning, and out of coverage on the frequency used for NR sidelink communication/discovery/positioning, and the concerned frequency is included in sl-FreqInfoToAddModList/sl-FreqInfoToAddModListExt in sl-ConfigDedicatedNR within RRCReconfiguration message or included in sl-FreqInfoList/sl-FreqInfoToAddModListExt within SIB12 or SIB23 for NR sidelink positioning:
2>	if the UE has selected GNSS as synchronization reference in accordance with 5.8.6.2:
3>	select SLSSID 0;
3>	use sl-SSB-TimeAllocation1 included in the entry of configured sl-SyncConfigList corresponding to the concerned frequency, that includes txParameters and gnss-Sync;
3>	select the slot(s) indicated by sl-SSB-TimeAllocation1;
2>	if the UE has selected a cell as synchronization reference in accordance with 5.8.6.2:
3>	select the SLSSID included in the entry of configured sl-SyncConfigList corresponding to the concerned frequency, that includes txParameters and does not include gnss-Sync;
3>	select the slot(s) indicated by sl-SSB-TimeAllocation1;
1>	else if triggered by NR sidelink communication/discovery and the UE has GNSS as the synchronization reference:
2>	select SLSSID 0;
2>	if sl-SSB-TimeAllocation3 is configured for the frequency used in SidelinkPreconfigNR:
3>	select the slot(s) indicated by sl-SSB-TimeAllocation3;
2>	else:
3>	select the slot(s) indicated by sl-SSB-TimeAllocation1;
1>	else:
2>	select the synchronisation reference UE (i.e. SyncRef UE) as defined in 5.8.6;
2>	if the UE has a selected SyncRef UE and inCoverage in the MasterInformationBlockSidelink message received from this UE is set to true; or
2>	if the UE has a selected SyncRef UE and inCoverage in the MasterInformationBlockSidelink message received from this UE is set to false while the SLSS from this UE is part of the set defined for out of coverage, see TS 38.211 [16]:
3>	select the same SLSSID as the SLSSID of the selected SyncRef UE;
3>	select the slot in which to transmit the SLSS according to the sl-SSB-TimeAllocation1 or sl-SSB-TimeAllocation2 included in the preconfigured sidelink parameters corresponding to the concerned frequency, such that the timing is different from the SLSS of the selected SyncRef UE;
2>	else if the UE has a selected SyncRef UE and the SLSS from this UE was transmitted on the slot(s) indicated sl-SSB-TimeAllocation3, which is configured for the frequency used in SidelinkPreconfigNR:
3>	select SLSSID 337;
3>	select the slot(s) indicated by sl-SSB-TimeAllocation2;
2>	else if the UE has a selected SyncRef UE:
3>	select the SLSSID from the set defined for out of coverage having an index that is 336 more than the index of the SLSSID of the selected SyncRef UE, see TS 38.211 [16];
3>	select the slot in which to transmit the SLSS according to sl-SSB-TimeAllocation1 or sl-SSB-TimeAllocation2 included in the preconfigured sidelink parameters corresponding to the concerned frequency, such that the timing is different from the SLSS of the selected SyncRef UE;
2>	else (i.e. no SyncRef UE selected):
3>	if the UE has not randomly selected an SLSSID:
4>	randomly select, using a uniform distribution, an SLSSID from the set of sequences defined for out of coverage except SLSSID 336 and 337, see TS 38.211 [16];
4>	select the slot in which to transmit the SLSS according to the sl-SSB-TimeAllocation1 or sl-SSB-TimeAllocation2 (arbitrary selection between these) included in the preconfigured sidelink parameters in SidelinkPreconfigNR corresponding to the concerned frequency;
5.8.5a	Sidelink synchronisation information transmission for V2X sidelink communication
5.8.5a.1	General

Figure 5.8.5a.1-1: Synchronisation information transmission for V2X sidelink communication, in (partial) coverage

Figure 5.8.5a.1-2: Synchronisation information transmission for V2X sidelink communication, out of coverage
The purpose of this procedure is to provide synchronisation information to a UE.
5.8.5a.2	Initiation
A UE capable of V2X sidelink communication initiates the transmission of SLSS and MasterInformationBlock-SL-V2X according to the conditions and the procedures specified for V2X sidelink communication in clause 5.10.7 of TS 36.331 [10].
NOTE 1: When applying the procedure in this clause, SIB13 and SIB14 correspond to SystemInformationBlockType21 and SystemInformationBlockType26 specified in TS 36.331 [10] respectively.
5.8.6	Sidelink synchronisation reference
5.8.6.1	General
The purpose of this procedure is to select a synchronisation reference and used when transmitting NR sidelink communication/discovery. This procedure also applies to NR sidelink discovery.
5.8.6.2	Selection and reselection of synchronisation reference
The UE shall for frequency(ies) which have been selected for NR sidelink communication/discovery as specified in TS 38.321 [3]:
1>	if sl-SyncFreqList is not included in RRCReconfiguration nor in SIB12; or
1>	if sl-SyncFreqList is included in RRCReconfiguration or in SIB12, and none of the frequency(ies) selected as specified in TS 38.321 [3] is included in the syncFreqList:
2>	if the frequency used for NR sidelink communication/discovery is included in sl-FreqInfoToAddModList in sl-ConfigDedicatedNR within RRCReconfiguration message or included in sl-ConfigCommonNR within SIB12, and sl-SyncPriority is configured for the concerned frequency and set to gnbEnb:
3>	select a cell as the synchronization reference source as defined in 5.8.6.3:
NOTE 1:	When an out of coverage L2 U2N Remote UE receives SIB12 with sl-SyncPriority set to gnbEnb, the L2 U2N Remote UE continues using the current synchronization source until higher priority synchronization source is found or the current synchronization source becomes unreliable.
2>	else if the frequency used for NR sidelink communication/discovery is included in sl-FreqInfoToAddModList in sl-ConfigDedicatedNR within RRCReconfiguration message or included in sl-ConfigCommonNR within SIB12, and sl-SyncPriority for the concerned frequency is not configured or is set to gnss, and GNSS is reliable in accordance with TS 38.101-1 [15] and TS 38.133 [14]:
3>	select GNSS as the synchronization reference source;
2>	else if the frequency used for NR sidelink communication/discovery is included in SL-PreconfigurationNR, and sl-SyncPriority in SidelinkPreconfigNR is set to gnss and GNSS is reliable in accordance with TS 38.101-1 [15] and TS 38.133 [14]:
3>	select GNSS as the synchronization reference source;
2>	else:
3>	perform synchronization reference search procedure as defined in 5.8.6.2b on each frequency which is used for NR sidelink communication/discovery;
3>	if the UE has not selected any synchronization reference:
4>	for each frequency which is used for NR sidelink communication/discovery:
5>	if the UE detects one or more SLSSIDs for which the PSBCH-RSRP exceeds the minimum requirement defined in TS 38.133 [14] by sl-SyncRefMinHyst and for which the UE received the corresponding MasterInformationBlockSidelink message (candidate SyncRef UEs), or if the UE detects GNSS that is reliable in accordance with TS 38.101-1 [15] and TS 38.133 [14], or if the UE detects a cell, select a synchronization reference according to the priority group order as defined in 5.8.6.2a:
1>	if sl-SyncFreqList is included in RRCReconfiguration or in SIB12, and includes at least one of the concerned frequency(ies)
2>	if the concerned frequency(ies) are included in sl-FreqInfoToAddModList/sl-FreqInfoToAddModListExt in sl-ConfigDedicatedNR within RRCReconfiguration message or included in sl-ConfigCommonNR within SIB12, and sl-SyncPriority is configured for the concerned frequency(ies) and set to gnbEnb:
3>	select one frequency from the concerned frequency(ies) which are included in sl-SyncFreqList as the synchronisation carrier frequency;
3>	select a cell in accordance with the synchronisation carrier frequency as the synchronization reference source as defined in 5.8.6.3:
2>	else if the concerned frequency(ies) are included in sl-FreqInfoToAddModList/sl-FreqInfoToAddModListExt in sl-ConfigDedicatedNR within RRCReconfiguration message or included in sl-ConfigCommonNR within SIB12, and sl-SyncPriority for concerned frequency(ies) are not configured or are set to gnss, and GNSS is reliable in accordance with TS 38.101-1 [15] and TS 38.133 [14]; or if the concerned frequency(ies) are included in SL-PreconfigurationNR, and sl-SyncPriority in SidelinkPreconfigNR is set to gnss and GNSS is reliable in accordance with TS 38.101-1 [15] and TS 38.133 [14]:
3>	select one frequency from the concerned frequency(ies) which are included in sl-SyncFreqList as the synchronisation carrier frequency;
3>	select GNSS in accordance with the synchronisation carrier frequency as the synchronization reference source;
2>	else:
3>	perform a synchronization reference search procedure as defined in 5.8.6.2b on each concerned frequency which is included in sl-SyncFreqList;
3>	if the UE has not selected any synchronization reference:
4>	for each concerned frequency which is included in sl-SyncFreqList:
5>	if the UE detects one or more SLSSIDs for which the PSBCH-RSRP exceeds the minimum requirement defined in TS 38.133 [14] by sl-SyncRefMinHyst and for which the UE received the corresponding MasterInformationBlockSidelink message (candidate SyncRef UEs), or if the UE detects GNSS that is reliable in accordance with TS 38.101-1 [15] and TS 38.133 [14], or if the UE detects a cell,
6>	select the synchronisation reference source(s) according to the following priority group order as defined in 5.8.6.2a;
6>	select the frequency with the highest synchronisation reference source priority as the synchronisation carrier frequency, according to the following priority group order as defined in 5.8.6.2a, and consider the synchornization reference source (i.e. eNB/gNB, GNSS or SyncRef UE) that selected on the synchronisation carrier frequency as the synchronization reference:
NOTE 2:	How the UE achieves subframe boundary alignment between V2X sidelink communication and NR sidelink communication/discovery (if both are performed by the UE) is as specified in TS 38.213, clause 16.7.
5.8.6.2a	Sidelink synchronization reference priority group order
1>	if sl-SyncPriority corresponding to the concerned frequency is set to gnbEnb:
2>	UEs of which SLSSID is part of the set defined for in coverage, and inCoverage, included in the MasterInformationBlockSidelink message received from this UE, is set to true, starting with the UE with the highest PSBCH-RSRP result (priority group 1);
2>	UE of which SLSSID is part of the set defined for in coverage, and inCoverage, included in the MasterInformationBlockSidelink message received from this UE, is set to false, starting with the UE with the highest PSBCH-RSRP result (priority group 2);
2>	GNSS that is reliable in accordance with TS 38.101-1 [15] and TS 38.133 [14] (priority group 3);
2>	UEs of which SLSSID is 0, and inCoverage, included in the MasterInformationBlockSidelink message received from this UE, is set to true, or of which SLSSID is 0 and SLSS is transmitted on slot(s) indicated by sl-SSB-TimeAllocation3, starting with the UE with the highest PSBCH-RSRP result (priority group 4);
2>	UEs of which SLSSID is 0 and SLSS is not transmitted on slot(s) indicated by sl-SSB-TimeAllocation3, and inCoverage, included in the MasterInformationBlockSidelink message received from this UE, is set to false, starting with the UE with the highest PSBCH-RSRP result (priority group 5);
2>	UEs of which SLSSID is 337 and inCoverage, included in the MasterInformationBlockSidelink message received from this UE, is set to false, starting with the UE with the highest PSBCH-RSRP result (priority group 5);
2>	Other UEs, starting with the UE with the highest PSBCH-RSRP result (priority group 6);
1>	if sl-SyncPriority corresponding to the concerned frequency is set to gnss, and sl-NbAsSync is set to true:
2>	UEs of which SLSSID is 0, and inCoverage, included in the MasterInformationBlockSidelink message received from this UE, is set to true, or of which SLSSID is 0 and SLSS is transmitted on slot(s) indicated by sl-SSB-TimeAllocation3, starting with the UE with the highest PSBCH-RSRP result (priority group 1);
2>	UEs of which SLSSID is 0 and SLSS is not transmitted on slot(s) indicated by sl-SSB-TimeAllocation3, and inCoverage, included in the MasterInformationBlockSidelink message received from this UE, is set to false, starting with the UE with the highest PSBCHS-RSRP result (priority group 2);
2>	UEs of which SLSSID is 337 and inCoverage, included in the MasterInformationBlockSidelink message received from this UE, is set to false, starting with the UE with the highest PSBCH-RSRP result (priority group 2);
2>	the cell detected by the UE as defined in 5.8.6.3 (priority group 3);
2>	UEs of which SLSSID is part of the set defined for in coverage, and inCoverage, included in the MasterInformationBlockSidelink message received from this UE, is set to true, starting with the UE with the highest PSBCH-RSRP result (priority group 4);
2>	UE of which SLSSID is part of the set defined for in coverage, and inCoverage, included in the MasterInformationBlockSidelink message received from this UE, is set to false, starting with the UE with the highest PSBCH-RSRP result (priority group 5);
2>	Other UEs, starting with the UE with the highest S-RSRP result (priority group 6);
1>	if sl-SyncPriority corresponding to the concerned frequency is set to gnss, and sl-NbAsSync is set to false:
2>	UEs of which SLSSID is 0, and inCoverage, included in the MasterInformationBlockSidelink message received from this UE, is set to true, or of which SLSSID is 0 and SLSS is transmitted on slot(s) indicated by sl-SSB-TimeAllocation3, starting with the UE with the highest PSBCH-RSRP result (priority group 1);
2>	UEs of which SLSSID is 0 and SLSS is not transmitted on slot(s) indicated by sl-SSB-TimeAllocation3, and inCoverage, included in the MasterInformationBlockSidelink message received from this UE, is set to false, starting with the UE with the highest PSBCHS-RSRP result (priority group 2);
2>	UEs of which SLSSID is 337 and inCoverage, included in the MasterInformationBlockSidelink message received from this UE, is set to false, starting with the UE with the highest PSBCH-RSRP result (priority group 2);
2>	Other UEs, starting with the UE with the highest PSBCH-RSRP result (priority group 3);
5.8.6.2b	Sidelink synchronization reference search
The UE shall for the indicated frequency(ies)
1>	perform a full search (i.e. covering all subframes and all possible SLSSIDs) on each indicated frequency to detect candidate SLSS, in accordance with TS 38.133 [14];
1>	when evaluating the one or more detected SLSSIDs, apply layer 3 filtering as specified in 5.5.3.2 using the preconfigured sl-filterCoefficient, before using the PSBCH-RSRP measurement results;
1>	if the UE has selected a SyncRef UE:
2>	if the PSBCH-RSRP of the strongest candidate SyncRef UE exceeds the minimum requirement TS 38.133 [14] by sl-SyncRefMinHyst and the strongest candidate SyncRef UE belongs to the same priority group as the current SyncRef UE and the PSBCH-RSRP of the strongest candidate SyncRef UE exceeds the PSBCH-RSRP of the current SyncRef UE by syncRefDiffHyst; or
2>	if the PSBCH-RSRP of the candidate SyncRef UE exceeds the minimum requirement TS 38.133 [14] by sl-SyncRefMinHyst and the candidate SyncRef UE belongs to a higher priority group than the current SyncRef UE; or
2>	if GNSS becomes reliable in accordance with TS 38.101-1 [15] and TS 38.133 [14], and GNSS belongs to a higher priority group than the current SyncRef UE; or
2>	if a cell is detected and gNB/eNB (if sl-NbAsSync is set to true) belongs to a higher priority group than the current SyncRef UE; or
2>	if the PSBCH-RSRP of the current SyncRef UE is less than the minimum requirement defined in TS 38.133 [14]:
3>	consider no SyncRef UE to be selected;
1>	if the UE has selected GNSS as the synchronization reference for NR sidelink communication/discovery:
2>	if the PSBCH-RSRP of the candidate SyncRef UE exceeds the minimum requirement defined in TS 38.133 [14] by sl-SyncRefMinHyst and the candidate SyncRef UE belongs to a higher priority group than GNSS; or
2>	if GNSS becomes not reliable in accordance with TS 38.101-1 [15] and TS 38.133 [14]:
3>	consider GNSS not to be selected;
1>	if the UE has selected cell as the synchronization reference for NR sidelink communication/discovery:
2>	if the PSBCH-RSRP of the candidate SyncRef UE exceeds the minimum requirement defined in TS 38.133 [14] by sl-SyncRefMinHyst and the candidate SyncRef UE belongs to a higher priority group than gNB/eNB; or
2>	if the selected cell is not detected:
3>	consider the cell not to be selected;
5.8.6.3	Sidelink communication transmission reference cell selection
A UE capable of NR sidelink communication/discovery that is configured by upper layers to transmit NR sidelink communication/discovery shall:
1>	for the frequency used to transmit NR sidelink communication/discovery, select a cell to be used as reference for synchronization in accordance with the following:
2>	if the frequency concerns the primary frequency:
3>	use the PCell or the serving cell as reference;
2>	else if the frequency concerns a secondary frequency:
3>	use the concerned SCell as reference;
2>	else if the UE is in coverage of the concerned frequency:
3>	use the DL frequency paired with the one used to transmit NR sidelink communication/discovery as reference;
2>	else (i.e., out of coverage on the concerned frequency):
3>	use the PCell or the serving cell as reference, if needed;
5.8.7	Sidelink communication reception
A UE capable of NR sidelink communication that is configured by upper layers to receive NR sidelink communication shall:
1>	if the conditions for NR sidelink communication operation as defined in 5.8.2 are met:
2>	if the frequency used for NR sidelink communication is included in sl-FreqInfoToAddModList/sl-FreqInfoToAddModListExt in RRCReconfiguration message or sl-FreqInfoList/sl-FreqInfoListSizeExt included in SIB12:
3>	if the UE is configured with sl-RxPool included in RRCReconfiguration message with reconfigurationWithSync (i.e. handover):
4>	configure lower layers to monitor sidelink control information and the corresponding data using the pool(s) of resources indicated by sl-RxPool;
3>	else if the cell chosen for NR sidelink communication provides SIB12:
4>	configure lower layers to monitor sidelink control information and the corresponding data using the pool(s) of resources indicated by sl-RxPool in SIB12;
2>	else:
3>	configure lower layers to monitor sidelink control information and the corresponding data using the pool(s) of resources that were preconfigured by sl-RxPool in SL-PreconfigurationNR, as defined in clause 9.3.
5.8.8	Sidelink communication transmission
A UE capable of NR sidelink communication that is configured by upper layers to transmit NR sidelink communication and has related data to be transmitted shall:
1>	if the conditions for NR sidelink communication operation as defined in 5.8.2 are met:
2>	if the frequency used for NR sidelink communication is included in sl-FreqInfoToAddModList/sl-FreqInfoToAddModListExt in sl-ConfigDedicatedNR within RRCReconfiguration message or included in sl-ConfigCommonNR within SIB12:
3>	if the UE is in RRC_CONNECTED and uses the frequency included in sl-ConfigDedicatedNR within RRCReconfiguration message:
4>	if the UE acting as U2U Relay UE is performing U2U Relay Communication with integrated Discovery as specified in TS 23.304[65] and sl-DiscConfig is included in RRCReconfiguration, and if the NR sidelink U2U Relay UE threshold conditions for integrated Discovery as specified in 5.8.16.2 are met based on sl-RelayUE-ConfigU2U; or
4>	if the UE capable of U2U Remote UE is performing U2U Relay Communication with integrated Discovery as specified in TS 23.304[65] and sl-DiscConfig is included in RRCReconfiguration, and if the NR sidelink U2U Remote UE threshold conditions for integrated Discovery as specified in 5.8.17.2 are met based on sl-RemoteUE-ConfigU2U; or
4>	if the UE is performing NR sidelink communication other than U2U Relay Communication with integrated Discovery:
NOTE 0:	For U2U Relay UE, it can be up to UE implementation on cross-layer interaction for the AS layer condition check for Direct Communication Request message with integrated discovery forwarding.
5>	if the UE is configured with sl-ScheduledConfig:
6>	if T310 for MCG or T311 is running; and if sl-TxPoolExceptional is included in sl-FreqInfoList/sl-FreqInfoListSizeExt for the concerned frequency in SIB12 or included in sl-ConfigDedicatedNR in RRCReconfiguration; or
6>	if T301 is running and the cell on which the UE initiated RRC connection re-establishment provides SIB12 including sl-TxPoolExceptional for the concerned frequency; or
6>	if T304 for MCG is running and the UE is configured with sl-TxPoolExceptional included in sl-ConfigDedicatedNR for the concerned frequency in RRCReconfiguration:
7>	configure lower layers to perform the sidelink resource allocation mode 2 based on random selection using the pool of resources indicated by sl-TxPoolExceptional as defined in TS 38.321 [3];
6>	else:
7>	configure lower layers to perform the sidelink resource allocation mode 1 for NR sidelink communication;
6>	if T311 is running, configure the lower layers to release the resources indicated by rrc-ConfiguredSidelinkGrant (if any);
5>	if the UE is configured with sl-UE-SelectedConfig:
6>	if a result of full/partial sensing, if selected and is allowed by sl-AllowedResourceSelectionConfig, on the resources configured in sl-TxPoolSelectedNormal for the concerned frequency included in sl-ConfigDedicatedNR within RRCReconfiguration is not available in accordance with TS 38.214 [19];
7>	if sl-TxPoolExceptional for the concerned frequency is included in RRCReconfiguration; or
7>	if the PCell provides SIB12 including sl-TxPoolExceptional in sl-FreqInfoList/sl-FreqInfoListSizeExt for the concerned frequency:
8>	configure lower layers to perform the sidelink resource allocation mode 2 based on random selection using the pool of resources indicated by sl-TxPoolExceptional as defined in TS 38.321 [3];
6>	else, if the sl-TxPoolSelectedNormal for the concerned frequency is included in the sl-ConfigDedicatedNR within RRCReconfiguration:
7>	configure lower layers to perform the sidelink resource allocation mode 2 based on resource selection operation according to sl-AllowedResourceSelectionConfig (as defined in TS 38.321 [3] and TS 38.214 [19]) using the pools of resources indicated by sl-TxPoolSelectedNormal for the concerned frequency;
3>	else:
4>	if the cell chosen for NR sidelink communication transmission provides SIB12:
5>	if the UE acting as U2U Relay UE is performing U2U Relay communication with integrated Discovery as specified in TS 23.304[65], and if the NR sidelink U2U Relay UE threshold conditions for integrated Discovery as specified in 5.8.16.2 are met based on sl-RelayUE-ConfigCommonU2U in SIB12; or
5>	if the UE capable of U2U Remote UE is performing U2U Relay Communication with integrated Discovery as specified in TS 23.304[65], and if the NR sidelink U2U Remote UE threshold conditions for integrated Discovery as specified in 5.8.17.2 are met based on sl-RemoteUE-ConfigCommonU2U in SIB12; or
5>	if the UE is performing NR sidelink communication other than U2U Relay Communication with integrated Discovery:
6>	if SIB12 includes sl-TxPoolSelectedNormal for the concerned frequency, and a result of full/partial sensing, if selected and is allowed by sl-AllowedResourceSelectionConfig, on the resources configured in the sl-TxPoolSelectedNormal is available in accordance with TS 38.214 [19] or random selection, if allowed by sl-AllowedResourceSelectionConfig, is selected:
7>	configure lower layers to perform the sidelink resource allocation mode 2 based on resource selection operation according to sl-AllowedResourceSelectionConfig using the pools of resources indicated by sl-TxPoolSelectedNormal for the concerned frequency as defined in TS 38.321 [3];
6>	else if SIB12 includes sl-TxPoolExceptional for the concerned frequency:
7>	from the moment the UE initiates RRC connection establishment or RRC connection resume, until receiving an RRCReconfiguration including sl-ConfigDedicatedNR, or receiving an RRCRelease or an RRCReject; or
7>	if a result of full/partial sensing, if selected and is allowed by sl-AllowedResourceSelectionConfig, on the resources configured in sl-TxPoolSelectedNormal for the concerned frequency in SIB12 is not available in accordance with TS 38.214 [19]:
8>	configure lower layers to perform the sidelink resource allocation mode 2 based on random selection (as defined in TS 38.321 [3]) using the pool of resources indicated by sl-TxPoolExceptional for the concerned frequency;
2>	else:
3>	if the UE acting as U2U Relay UE is performing U2U Relay communication with integrated Discovery as specified in TS 23.304[65], and if the NR sidelink U2U Relay UE threshold conditions for integrated Discovery as specified in 5.8.16.2 are met based on sl-RelayUE-PreconfigU2U in SidelinkPreconfigNR; or
3>	if the UE capable of U2U Remote UE is performing U2U Relay Communication with integrated Discovery as specified in TS 23.304[65], and if the NR sidelink U2U Remote UE threshold conditions for integrated Discovery as specified in 5.8.17.2 are met based on sl-RemoteUE-PreconfigU2U in SidelinkPreconfigNR; or
3>	if the UE is performing NR sidelink communication other than U2U Relay Communication with integrated Discovery:
4>	configure lower layers to perform the sidelink resource allocation mode 2 based on resource selection operation according to sl-AllowedResourceSelectionConfig (as defined in TS 38.321 [3] and TS 38.214 [19]) using the pools of resources indicated by sl-TxPoolSelectedNormal in SidelinkPreconfigNR for the concerned frequency.
NOTE 1:	The UE continues to use resources configured in rrc-ConfiguredSidelinkGrant (while T310 is running) until it is released (i.e. until T310 has expired). The UE does not use sidelink configured grant type 2 resources while T310 is running.
NOTE 2:	In case of RRC reconfiguration with sync, the UE uses resources configured in rrc-ConfiguredSidelinkGrant (while T304 on the MCG is running) if provided by the target cell.
NOTE 3:	It is up to UE implementation to determine, in accordance with TS 38.321[3], which resource pool to use if multiple resource pools are configured, and which resource allocation scheme is used in the AS based on UE capability (for a UE in RRC_IDLE/RRC_INACTIVE) and the allowed resource schemes sl-AllowedResourceSelectionConfig in the resource pool configuration.
NOTE 4:	In case that the network does not provide resource pools in SIB12, a UE which is out of coverage, will be unable to obtain sidelink resources to send the first UL RRC message.
If configured to perform sidelink resource allocation mode 2, the UE capable of NR sidelink communication that is configured by upper layers to transmit NR sidelink communication shall perform resource selection operation according to sl-AllowedResourceSelectionConfig on all pools of resources which may be used for transmission of the sidelink control information and the corresponding data. The pools of resources are indicated by SidelinkPreconfigNR, sl-TxPoolSelectedNormal in sl-ConfigDedicatedNR, or sl-TxPoolSelectedNormal in SIB12 for the concerned frequency, as configured above.
5.8.9	Sidelink RRC procedure
5.8.9.1	Sidelink RRC reconfiguration
5.8.9.1.1	General


Figure 5.8.9.1.1-1: Sidelink RRC reconfiguration, successful

Figure 5.8.9.1.1-2: Sidelink RRC reconfiguration, failure
The purpose of this procedure is to modify a PC5-RRC connection, e.g. to establish/modify/release sidelink DRBs or additional sidelink RLC bearer or PC5 Relay RLC channels, to add/release sidelink carrier, to (re-)configure NR sidelink measurement and reporting, to (re-)configure sidelink CSI reference signal resources, to (re)configure CSI reporting latency bound, to (re)configure sidelink DRX, to (re-)configure the latency bound of SL Inter-UE coordination report, and to indicate the SFN-DFN offset.
The UE may initiate the sidelink RRC reconfiguration procedure and perform the operation in clause 5.8.9.1.2 on the corresponding PC5-RRC connection in following cases:
-	the release of sidelink DRBs associated with the peer UE, or peer L2 U2U Remote UE in case of L2 U2U Relay operation, as specified in clause 5.8.9.1a.1;
-	the establishment of sidelink DRBs associated with the peer UE, or peer L2 U2U Remote UE in case of L2 U2U Relay operation, as specified in clause 5.8.9.1a.2;
-	the modification for the parameters included in SLRB-Config of sidelink DRBs associated with the peer UE, or peer L2 U2U Remote UE in case of L2 U2U Relay operation, as specified in clause 5.8.9.1a.2;
-	the release of additional sidelink RLC bearer associated with the peer UE, as specified in clause 5.8.9.1a.5;
-	the establishment of additional sidelink RLC bearer associated with the peer UE, as specified in clause 5.8.9.1a.6;
-	the modification for the parameters included in SL-RLC-BearerConfig of additional sidelink RLC bearer associated with the peer UE, as specified in clause 5.8.9.1a.6;
-	the release of PC5 Relay RLC channels for L2 U2N/U2U Relay UE and Remote UE, as specified in clause 5.8.9.7.1;
-	the establishment of PC5 Relay RLC channels for L2 U2N/U2U Relay UE and Remote UE, as specified in clause 5.8.9.7.2;
-	the modification for the parameters included in SL-RLC-ChannelConfigPC5 of PC5 Relay RLC channels for L2 U2N/U2U Relay UE and Remote UE, as specified in clause 5.8.9.7.2;
-	the release of sidelink carrier associated with the peer UE, as specified in clause 5.8.9.1b.1;
-	the addition of sidelink carrier associated with the peer UE, as specified in clause 5.8.9.1b.2;
-	the (re-)configuration of the peer UE to perform NR sidelink measurement and report.
-	the (re-)configuration of the sidelink CSI reference signal resources and CSI reporting latency bound;
-	the (re-)configuration of the peer UE to perform sidelink DRX;
-	the (re-)configuration of the latency bound of SL Inter-UE coordination report;
-	the (re-)configuration of the local UE ID pair for L2 U2U Remote UE and its peer L2 U2U Remote UE by L2 U2U Relay UE.
-	the response to the request in a RemoteUEInformationSidelink message for the SFN-DFN offset from the L2 U2N Remote UE;
-	the change in the value of the SFN-DFN offset at the L2 U2N Relay UE.
NOTE:	It is up to L2 U2N Relay UE implementation to determine when the SFN-DFN offset has changed in value to a degree requiring an update to be sent to the L2 U2N Remote UE.
In RRC_CONNECTED, the UE applies the NR sidelink communications parameters provided in RRCReconfiguration (if any). In RRC_IDLE or RRC_INACTIVE, the UE applies the NR sidelink communications parameters provided in system information (if any). For other cases, UEs apply the NR sidelink communications parameters provided in SidelinkPreconfigNR (if any). When UE performs state transition between above three cases, the UE applies the NR sidelink communications parameters provided in the new state, after acquisition of the new configurations. Before acquisition of the new configurations, UE continues applying the NR sidelink communications parameters provided in the old state.
5.8.9.1.2	Actions related to transmission of RRCReconfigurationSidelink message
The UE shall set the contents of RRCReconfigurationSidelink message as follows:
1>	for each sidelink DRB that is to be released, according to clause 5.8.9.1a.1.1, due to configuration by sl-ConfigDedicatedNR, SIB12, SidelinkPreconfigNR, by upper layers, or due to end-to-end sidelink DRB release:
2>	set the entry included in the slrb-ConfigToReleaseList corresponding to the sidelink DRB;
1>	for each sidelink DRB that is to be established or modified, according to clause 5.8.9.1a.2.1, due to receiving sl-ConfigDedicatedNR, SIB12 or SidelinkPreconfigNR:
2>	if the sidelink DRB is a per-hop sidelink DRB (i.e. the UE is performing NR sidelink communication with a peer UE without via a L2 U2U Relay UE):
3>	if a sidelink DRB is to be established:
4>	assign a new logical channel identity for the logical channel to be associated with the sidelink DRB and set sl-MAC-LogicalChannelConfigPC5 in the SLRB-Config to include the new logical channel identity;
3>	set the SLRB-Config included in the slrb-ConfigToAddModList, according to the received sl-RadioBearerConfig and sl-RLC-BearerConfig corresponding to the sidelink DRB;
2>	else if the sidelink DRB is an end-to-end sidelink DRB (i.e. the UE is acting as a L2 U2U Remote UE, and configure peer L2 U2U Remote UE with end-to-end SDAP and PDCP):
3>	set the SLRB-Config (excluding sl-RLC-ConfigPC5 and sl-MAC-LogicalChannelConfigPC5) included in the slrb-ConfigToAddModList, according to the received sl-RadioBearerConfig corresponding to the sidelink DRB;
1>	for each additional sidelink RLC bearer that is to be released, according to clause 5.8.9.1a.5.1, due to configuration by sl-ConfigDedicatedNR, SIB12, SidelinkPreconfigNR or by upper layers:
2>	set the entry included in the sl-RLC-BearerToReleaseList corresponding to the additional sidelink RLC bearer;
1>	for each additional sidelink RLC bearer that is to be established or modified, according to clause 5.8.9.1a.6.1, due to receiving sl-ConfigDedicatedNR, SIB12 or SidelinkPreconfigNR:
2>	if an additional sidelink RLC bearer is to be established:
3>	assign a new logical channel identity for the logical channel to be associated with the additional sidelink RLC bearer and set sl-MAC-LogicalChannelConfigPC5 in the SL-RLC-BearerConfig to include the new logical channel identity;
2>	set the SL-RLC-BearerConfig included in the sl-RLC-BearerToAddModList, according to the received sl-RadioBearerConfig and sl-RLC-BearerConfig corresponding to the additional sidelink RLC bearer;
1>	for each carrier that is to be released, according to clause 5.8.9.1b.1.1:
2>	include the corresponding sidelink carrier in the sl-CarrierToReleaseList;
1>	for each carrier that is to be added, according to clause 5.8.9.1b.2.1:
2>	include the corresponding sidelink carrier in the sl-CarrierToAddModList;
1>	set the sl-MeasConfig as follows:
2>	If the frequency used for NR sidelink communication is included in sl-FreqInfoToAddModList/sl-FreqInfoToAddModListExt in sl-ConfigDedicatedNR within RRCReconfiguration message or included in sl-ConfigCommonNR within SIB12:
3>	if UE is in RRC_CONNECTED:
4>	set the sl-MeasConfig according to stored NR sidelink measurement configuration information for this destination;
3>	if UE is in RRC_IDLE or RRC_INACTIVE:
4>	set the sl-MeasConfig according to stored NR sidelink measurement configuration received from SIB12;
2>	else:
3>	set the sl-MeasConfig according to the sl-MeasPreConfig in SidelinkPreconfigNR;
1>	set the sl-LatencyBoundIUC-Report;
1>	start timer T400 for the destination;
1>	set the sl-CSI-RS-Config;
1>	set the sl-LatencyBoundCSI-Report;
1>	set the sl-ResetConfig;
NOTE 1:	Whether/how to set the parameters included in sl-LatencyBoundIUC-Report, sl-CSI-RS-Config, sl-LatencyBoundCSI-Report and sl-ResetConfig is up to UE implementation.
1>	set the sl-DRX-ConfigUC-PC5 as follows:
2>	If the frequency used for NR sidelink communication is included in sl-FreqInfoToAddModList/sl-FreqInfoToAddModListExt in sl-ConfigDedicatedNR within RRCReconfiguration message or included in sl-ConfigCommonNR within SIB12:
3>	if UE is in RRC_CONNECTED and if sl-ScheduledConfig is included in sl-ConfigDedicatedNR within RRCReconfiguration:
4>	set the sl-DRX-ConfigUC-PC5 according to stored NR sidelink DRX configuration information for this destination;
NOTE 2:	If UE is in RRC_IDLE or in RRC_INACTIVE or out of coverage, or in RRC_CONNECTED and sl-UE-SelectedConfig is included in sl-ConfigDedicatedNR within RRCReconfiguration, it is up to UE implementation to set the sl-DRX-ConfigUC-PC5.
1>	for each PC5 Relay RLC channel that is to be released due to configuration by sl-ConfigDedicatedNR:
2>	set the SL-RLC-ChannelID corresponding to the PC5 Relay RLC channel in the sl-RLC-ChannelToReleaseListPC5;
1>	for each PC5 Relay RLC channel that is to be established or modified due to receiving sl-ConfigDedicatedNR:
2>	if a PC5 Relay RLC channel is to be established:
3>	assign a new logical channel identity for the logical channel to be associated with the PC5 Relay RLC channel and set sl-MAC-LogicalChannelConfigPC5 in the SL-RLC-ChannelConfigPC5 to include the new logical channel identity;
2>	set the SL-RLC-ChannelConfigPC5 included in the sl-RLC-ChannelToAddModListPC5 according to the received SL-RLC-ChannelConfig corresponding to the PC5 Relay RLC channel, including setting sl-RLC-ChannelID-PC5 to the same value of sl-RLC-ChannelID received in SL-RLC-ChannelConfig;
1>	if the UE is operating as a L2 U2N Relay UE:
2>	if the destination UE is a L2 U2N Remote UE that requested the SFN-DFN offset in a previous RemoteUEInformationSidelink message:
3>	if the SFN-DFN offset has changed since a previous transmission of the RRCReconfigurationSidelink message, or no previous transmission of the RRCReconfigurationSidelink message has occurred since the reception of the RemoteUEInformationSidelink message:
4>	set the sl-SFN-DFN-Offset according to the relation between the SFN timeline of the PCell and the DFN timeline;
1>	if the UE is acting as L2 U2U Relay UE, and if the procedure is initiated to configure local ID pair to a connected L2 U2U Remote UE:
2>	if the local ID pair is to be assigned or modified for an end-to-end PC5 connection, and if the per-hop PC5-RRC connection with this L2 U2U Remote UE and the per-hop PC5-RRC connection with its peer L2 U2U Remote UE are successfully established:
3>	include an entry in sl-LocalID-PairList, and set the fields as below:
4>	set sl-RemoteUE-L2Identity to the source L2 ID of this L2 U2U Remote UE, and set sl-RemoteUE-LocalIdentity to include the new local UE ID assigned to this L2 U2U Remote UE, in the SL-SRAP-ConfigPC5;
4>	set sl-PeerRemoteUE-L2Identity to the source L2 ID of the peer L2 U2U Remote UE, and set sl-PeerRemoteUE-LocalIdentity to include the new local UE ID assigned to the peer L2 U2U Remote UE, in the SL-SRAP-ConfigPC5;
1>	if the UE is acting as L2 U2U Remote UE (i.e. Tx UE) and is in RRC_IDLE or in RRC_INACTIVE or out of coverage, and the procedure is initiated to release the first hop PC5 Relay RLC channel of an end-to-end sidelink DRB to the connected L2 U2U Relay UE (i.e. Rx UE) according to clause 5.8.9.7.1; or
1>	if the UE is acting as L2 U2U Relay UE (i.e. Tx UE) and is in RRC_IDLE or in RRC_INACTIVE or out of coverage, and the procedure is initiated to release the second hop PC5 Relay RLC channel of an end-to-end sidelink DRB to the connected L2 U2U Remote UE (i.e. Rx UE) according to clause 5.8.9.7.1:
2>	set the SL-RLC-ChannelID corresponding to the PC5 Relay RLC channel in the sl-RLC-ChannelToReleaseListPC5;
1>	if the UE is acting as L2 U2U Remote UE (i.e. Tx UE) and is in RRC_IDLE or in RRC_INACTIVE or out of coverage, and if the procedure is initiated to add/modify the first hop PC5 Relay RLC channel of an end-to-end sidelink DRB to the connected L2 U2U Relay UE (i.e. Rx UE), based on configuration in SIB12 or SidelinkPreconfigNR; or
1>	if the UE is acting as L2 U2U Relay UE (i.e. Tx UE) and is in RRC_IDLE or in RRC_INACTIVE or out of coverage, and if the procedure is initiated to add/modify the second hop PC5 Relay RLC channel to the connected L2 U2U Remote UE (i.e. Rx UE) based on configuration in SIB12 or SidelinkPreconfigNR:
2>	if a PC5 Relay RLC channel is to be established:
3>	assign a new RLC channel ID and set sl-RLC-ChannelID-PC5 in the SL-RLC-ChannelConfigPC5 to include the new RLC channel ID;
3>	assign a new logical channel identity for the logical channel to be associated with the PC5 Relay RLC channel and set sl-MAC-LogicalChannelConfigPC5 in the SL-RLC-ChannelConfigPC5 to include the new logical channel identity;
2>	if the UE is in RRC_IDLE or in RRC_INACTIVE:
3>	set the SL-RLC-ChannelConfigPC5 included in the sl-RLC-ChannelToAddModListPC5 according to the SL-RLC-BearerConfig derived based on the per-hop QoS of the end-to-end SLRB according to sl-RLC-BearerConfigList in SIB12;
2>	else if the UE is out of coverage:
3>	set the SL-RLC-ChannelConfigPC5 included in the sl-RLC-ChannelToAddModListPC5 according to the SL-RLC-BearerConfig derived based on the per-hop QoS of the end-to-end SLRB according to sl-RLC-BearerPreConfigList in SidelinkPreconfigNR.
NOTE 3:	Void.
The UE shall submit the RRCReconfigurationSidelink message to lower layers for transmission.
5.8.9.1.3	Reception of an RRCReconfigurationSidelink by the UE
The UE shall perform the following actions upon reception of the RRCReconfigurationSidelink:
1>	if the RRCReconfigurationSidelink includes the sl-ResetConfig:
2>	perform the sidelink reset configuration procedure as specified in 5.8.9.1.10;
1>	if the RRCReconfigurationSidelink includes the slrb-ConfigToReleaseList:
2>	for each entry value included in the slrb-ConfigToReleaseList that is part of the current UE sidelink configuration;
3>	perform the sidelink DRB release procedure, according to clause 5.8.9.1a.1;
1>	if the RRCReconfigurationSidelink includes the slrb-ConfigToAddModList:
2>	for each slrb-PC5-ConfigIndex value included in the slrb-ConfigToAddModList that is not part of the current UE sidelink configuration:
3>	if sl-MappedQoS-FlowsToAddList is included:
4>	apply the SL-PQFI included in sl-MappedQoS-FlowsToAddList;
3>	perform the sidelink DRB addition procedure, according to clause 5.8.9.1a.2;
2>	for each slrb-PC5-ConfigIndex value included in the slrb-ConfigToAddModList that is part of the current UE sidelink configuration:
3>	if sl-MappedQoS-FlowsToAddList is included:
4>	add the SL-PQFI included in sl-MappedQoS-FlowsToAddList to the corresponding sidelink DRB;
3>	if sl-MappedQoS-FlowsToReleaseList is included:
4>	remove the SL-PQFI included in sl-MappedQoS-FlowsToReleaseList from the corresponding sidelink DRB;
3>	if the sidelink DRB release conditions as described in clause 5.8.9.1a.1.1 are met:
4>	perform the sidelink DRB release procedure according to clause 5.8.9.1a.1.2;
3>	else if the sidelink DRB modification conditions as described in clause 5.8.9.1a.2.1 are met:
4>	perform the sidelink DRB modification procedure according to clause 5.8.9.1a.2.2;
1>	if the RRCReconfigurationSidelink includes the sl-RLC-BearerToReleaseList:
2>	for each entry value included in the sl-RLC-BearerToReleaseList that is part of the current UE sidelink configuration;
3>	perform the additional sidelink RLC bearer release procedure, according to clause 5.8.9.1a.5;
1>	if the RRCReconfigurationSidelink includes the sl-RLC-BearerToAddModList:
2>	for each SL-RLC-BearerConfigIndex value included in the sl-RLC-BearerToAddModList that is not part of the current UE sidelink configuration:
3>	perform the additional sidelink RLC bearer addition procedure, according to clause 5.8.9.1a.6;
2>	for each SL-RLC-BearerConfigIndex value included in the sl-RLC-BearerToAddModList that is part of the current UE sidelink configuration:
3>	perform the additional sidelink RLC bearer modification procedure, according to clause 5.8.9.1a.6;
1>	if the RRCReconfigurationSidelink includes the sl-CarrierToReleaseList:
2>	for each entry value included in the sl-CarrierToReleaseList that is part of the current UE sidelink configuration;
3>	perform the sidelink carrier release procedure, according to clause 5.8.9.1b.1;
1>	if the RRCReconfigurationSidelink includes the sl-CarrierToAddModList:
2>	for each sl-CarrierId value included in the sl-CarrierToAddModList that is not part of the current UE sidelink configuration:
3>	perform the sidelink carrier addition procedure, according to clause 5.8.9.1b.2;
1>	if the RRCReconfigurationSidelink message includes the sl-MeasConfig:
2>	perform the sidelink measurement configuration procedure as specified in 5.8.10;
1>	if the RRCReconfigurationSidelink message includes the sl-CSI-RS-Config:
2>	apply the sidelink CSI-RS configuration;
1>	if the RRCReconfigurationSidelink message includes the sl-LatencyBoundCSI-Report:
2>	apply the configured sidelink CSI report latency bound;
1>	if the RRCReconfigurationSidelink includes the sl-RLC-ChannelToReleaseListPC5:
2>	for each SL-RLC-ChannelID value included in the sl-RLC-ChannelToReleaseListPC5 that is part of the current UE sidelink configuration;
3>	perform the PC5 Relay RLC channel release procedure, according to clause 5.8.9.7.1;
1>	if the RRCReconfigurationSidelink includes the sl-RLC-ChannelToAddModListPC5:
2>	for each sl-RLC-ChannelID-PC5 value included in the sl-RLC-ChannelToAddModListPC5 that is not part of the current UE sidelink configuration:
3>	perform the PC5 Relay RLC channel addition procedure, according to clause 5.8.9.7.2;
2>	for each sl-RLC-ChannelID-PC5 value included in the sl-RLC-ChannelToAddModListPC5 that is part of the current UE sidelink configuration:
3>	perform the PC5 Relay RLC channel modification procedure according to clause 5.8.9.7.2;
1>	if the RRCReconfigurationSidelink message includes the sl-DRX-ConfigUC-PC5; and
1>	if the UE accepts the sl-DRX-ConfigUC-PC5:
2>	configure lower layers to perform sidelink DRX operation according to sl-DRX-ConfigUC-PC5 for the associated destination as defined in TS 38.321 [3];
1>	if the RRCReconfigurationSidelink message includes the sl-LatencyBoundIUC-Report:
2>	apply the configured sidelink IUC report latency bound;
1>	if the RRCReconfigurationSidelink message includes the sl-LocalID-PairList:
2>	configure SRAP entity to perform NR sidelink L2 U2U relay operation accordingly for the end-to-end PC5 connection with the peer L2 U2U Remote UE as defined in TS 38.351 [65];
1>	if the UE is unable to comply with (part of) the configuration included in the RRCReconfigurationSidelink (i.e. sidelink RRC reconfiguration failure):
2>	continue using the configuration used prior to the reception of the RRCReconfigurationSidelink message;
2>	set the content of the RRCReconfigurationFailureSidelink message;
3>	submit the RRCReconfigurationFailureSidelink message to lower layers for transmission;
1>	if the RRCReconfigurationSidelink message includes the sl-SFN-DFN-Offset:
2>	if the sl-SFN-DFN-Offset is set to setup:
3>	apply the configured SFN-DFN time offset;
2>	if the sl-SFN-DFN-Offset is set to release:
3>	release the received sl-SFN-DFN-Offset;
1>	else:
2>	set the content of the RRCReconfigurationCompleteSidelink message;
3>	if the UE rejects the sidelink DRX configuration sl-DRX-ConfigUC-PC5 received from the peer UE:
4>	include the sl-DRX-ConfigReject in the RRCReconfigurationCompleteSidelink message;
4>	consider no sidelink DRX to be applied for the corresponding sidelink unicast communication;
3>	submit the RRCReconfigurationCompleteSidelink message to lower layers for transmission;
NOTE 1:	When the same logical channel is configured with different RLC mode by another UE, the UE handles the case as sidelink RRC reconfiguration failure.
NOTE 2:	It is up to the UE implementation whether or not to indicate the rejection to the peer UE for a received sidelink DRX configuration.
NOTE 3:	When UE transmits SL-PRS in dedicated SL-PRS resource pool, the sidelink DRX configuration is not applied.
5.8.9.1.4	Void
5.8.9.1.5	Void
5.8.9.1.6	Void
5.8.9.1.7	Void
5.8.9.1.8	Reception of an RRCReconfigurationFailureSidelink by the UE
The UE shall perform the following actions upon reception of the RRCReconfigurationFailureSidelink:
1>	stop timer T400 for the destination, if running;
1>	continue using the configuration used prior to corresponding RRCReconfigurationSidelink message;
1>	if UE is in RRC_CONNECTED:
2>	perform the sidelink UE information for NR sidelink communication procedure, as specified in 5.8.3.3 or clause 5.10.15 in TS 36.331 [10];
5.8.9.1.9	Reception of an RRCReconfigurationCompleteSidelink by the UE
The UE shall perform the following actions upon reception of the RRCReconfigurationCompleteSidelink:
1>	stop timer T400 for the destination, if running;
1>	consider the configurations in the corresponding RRCReconfigurationSidelink message to be applied.
2>	if the RRCReconfigurationCompleteSidelink message includes the sl-DRX-ConfigReject:
3>	consider no sidelink DRX to be applied for the corresponding sidelink unicast communication.
5.8.9.1.10	Sidelink reset configuration
The UE shall:
1>	release/clear current sidelink radio configuration of this destination received in the RRCReconfigurationSidelink;
1>	release the sidelink DRBs of this destination, in according to clause 5.8.9.1a.1;
1>	release the additional sidelink RLC bearer of this destination, if configured, in according to clause 5.8.9.1a.5;
1>	reset the sidelink specific MAC of this destination, except for end-to-end PC5 connection in L2 U2U Relay operation.
NOTE 1:	Sidelink radio configuration is not just the resource configuration but may include other configurations included in the RRCReconfigurationSidelink message except the sidelink DRBs of this destination.
NOTE 2:	After the sidelink DRB release procedure, UE may perform the sidelink DRB addition according to the current sidelink configuration of this destination, received in sl-ConfigDedicatedNR, SIB12 and SidelinkPreconfigNR, according to clause 5.8.9.1a.2.
5.8.9.1a	Sidelink radio bearer management
5.8.9.1a.1	Sidelink DRB release
5.8.9.1a.1.1	Sidelink DRB release conditions
For NR sidelink communication, a sidelink DRB release is initiated in the following cases:
1>	for groupcast, broadcast and unicast, if slrb-Uu-ConfigIndex (if any) of the sidelink DRB is included in sl-RadioBearerToReleaseList in sl-ConfigDedicatedNR; or
1>	for groupcast and broadcast, if no sidelink QoS flow with data indicated by upper layers is mapped to the sidelink DRB for transmission, which is (re)configured by receiving SIB12 or SidelinkPreconfigNR; or
1>	for groupcast, broadcast and unicast, if SL-RLC-BearerConfigIndex (if any) of the sidelink DRB is included in sl-RLC-BearerToReleaseList/sl-RLC-BearerToReleaseListSizeExt in sl-ConfigDedicatedNR; or
1>	for unicast, if no sidelink QoS flow with data indicated by upper layers is mapped to the sidelink DRB for transmission, which is (re)configured by receiving SIB12 or SidelinkPreconfigNR, and if no sidelink QoS flow mapped to the sidelink DRB, which is (re)configured by receiving RRCReconfigurationSidelink, has data; or
1>	for unicast, if SLRB-PC5-ConfigIndex (if any) of the sidelink DRB is included in slrb-ConfigToReleaseList in RRCReconfigurationSidelink or if sl-ResetConfig is included in RRCReconfigurationSidelink; or
1>	for unicast, when the corresponding PC5-RRC connection is released due to sidelink RLF being detected, according to clause 5.8.9.3; or
1>	for unicast, when the corresponding PC5-RRC connection is released due to upper layer request according to clause 5.8.9.5; or
1>	for L2 U2U relay operation, when the corresponding end-to-end PC5 connection failure is detected according to clause 5.8.9.3a; or
1>	for L2 U2U relay operation, when the corresponding end-to-end PC5-RRC connection is released due to upper layer request according to clause 5.8.9.5a.
5.8.9.1a.1.2	Sidelink DRB release operations
For each sidelink DRB, whose sidelink DRB release conditions are met as in clause 5.8.9.1a.1.1, the UE capable of NR sidelink communication that is configured by upper layers to perform NR sidelink communication shall:
1>	for groupcast and broadcast; or
1>	for unicast, if the sidelink DRB release was triggered after the reception of the RRCReconfigurationSidelink message; or
1>	for unicast, after receiving the RRCReconfigurationCompleteSidelink message, if the sidelink DRB release was triggered due to the configuration received within the sl-ConfigDedicatedNR, SIB12, SidelinkPreconfigNR or indicated by upper layers:
2>	release the PDCP entity for NR sidelink communication associated with the sidelink DRB;
2>	if SDAP entity for NR sidelink communication associated with this sidelink DRB is configured:
3>	indicate the release of the sidelink DRB to the SDAP entity associated with this sidelink DRB (TS 37.324 [24], clause 5.3.3);
2>	release SDAP entities for NR sidelink communication, if any, that have no associated sidelink DRB as specified in TS 37.324 [24] clause 5.1.2;
1>	for groupcast and broadcast; or
1>	for unicast, after receiving the RRCReconfigurationCompleteSidelink message, if the sidelink DRB release was triggered due to the configuration received within the sl-ConfigDedicatedNR:
2>	for each sl-RLC-BearerConfigIndex included in the received sl-RLC-BearerToReleaseList/sl-RLC-BearerToReleaseListSizeExt that is part of the current UE sidelink configuration:
3>	release the RLC entity and the corresponding logical channel for NR sidelink communication, associated with the sl-RLC-BearerConfigIndex.
1>	if the sidelink DRB is a per-hop sidelink DRB (i.e. the UE is performing NR sidelink communication with a peer UE without via a L2 U2U Relay UE):
2>	for unicast, if the sidelink DRB release was triggered due to the reception of the RRCReconfigurationSidelink message; or
2>	for unicast, after receiving the RRCReconfigurationCompleteSidelink message, if the sidelink DRB release was triggered due to the configuration received within the SIB12, SidelinkPreconfigNR or indicated by upper layers:
3>	release the RLC entity and the corresponding logical channel for NR sidelink communication associated with the sidelink DRB;
3>	perform the sidelink UE information procedure in clause 5.8.3 for unicast if needed.
1>	if the sidelink radio link failure is detected for a specific destination:
2>	release the PDCP entity, RLC entity and the logical channel of the sidelink DRB for the specific destination.
1>	if the UE is acting as a L2 U2U Remote UE, and if the end-to-end sidelink DRB release is triggered by end-to-end PC5 connection failure due to per-hop PC5 link failure, in accordance with clause 5.8.9.3a:
2>	release the PDCP entity(ies) of the end-to-end sidelink DRB(s) for the specific end-to-end PC5 connection;
1>	if the sidelink DRB is an end-to-end sidelink DRB in L2 U2U relay operation and the UE is acting as a L2 U2U remote UE:
2>	trigger the UE information transfer procedure on sidelink as specified in 5.8.9.11.2;
5.8.9.1a.2	Sidelink DRB addition/modification
5.8.9.1a.2.1	Sidelink DRB addition/modification conditions
For NR sidelink communication, a sidelink DRB addition is initiated only in the following cases:
1>	if any sidelink QoS flow is (re)configured by sl-ConfigDedicatedNR, SIB12, SidelinkPreconfigNR and is to be mapped to one sidelink DRB, which is not established; or
1>	if any sidelink QoS flow is (re)configured by RRCReconfigurationSidelink and is to be mapped to a sidelink DRB, which is not established;
1>	if any sidelink QoS flow is (re)configured by source L2 U2U Remote UE and is mapped to an end-to-end sidelink DRB for transmission when the UE is acting as L2 U2U Relay UE;
The above conditions also apply to L2 U2U Remote UE for end-to-end sidelink DRB addition.
For NR sidelink communication, a sidelink DRB modification is initiated only in the following cases:
1>	if any of the sidelink DRB related parameters is changed by sl-ConfigDedicatedNR, SIB12, SidelinkPreconfigNR or RRCReconfigurationSidelink for one sidelink DRB, which is established;
The above conditions also apply to L2 U2U Remote UE for end-to-end sidelink DRB modification.
5.8.9.1a.2.2	Sidelink DRB addition/modification operations
For the sidelink DRB, whose sidelink DRB addition conditions are met as in clause 5.8.9.1a.2.1, the UE capable of NR sidelink communication that is configured by upper layers to perform NR sidelink communication shall:
1>	for groupcast and broadcast; or
1>	for unicast, if the sidelink DRB addition was triggered due to the reception of the RRCReconfigurationSidelink message; or
1>	for unicast, after receiving the RRCReconfigurationCompleteSidelink message, if the sidelink DRB addition was triggered due to the configuration received within the sl-ConfigDedicatedNR, SIB12, SidelinkPreconfigNR or indicated by upper layers:
2>	if an SDAP entity for NR sidelink communication associated with the destination and the cast type of the sidelink DRB does not exist:
3>	establish an SDAP entity for NR sidelink communication as specified in TS 37.324 [24] clause 5.1.1;
2>	(re)configure the SDAP entity in accordance with the sl-SDAP-ConfigPC5 received in the RRCReconfigurationSidelink or sl-SDAP-Config received in sl-ConfigDedicatedNR, SIB12, SidelinkPreconfigNR, associated with the sidelink DRB;
2>	establish a PDCP entity for NR sidelink communication and configure it in accordance with the sl-PDCP-ConfigPC5 received in the RRCReconfigurationSidelink or sl-PDCP-Config received in sl-ConfigDedicatedNR, SIB12, SidelinkPreconfigNR, associated with the sidelink DRB;
2>	for a per-hop sidelink DRB (i.e. the UE is performing NR sidelink communication with a peer UE without via a L2 U2U Relay UE):
3>	establish a RLC entity for NR sidelink communication and configure it in accordance with the sl-RLC-ConfigPC5 received in the RRCReconfigurationSidelink or sl-RLC-Config received in sl-ConfigDedicatedNR, SIB12, SidelinkPreconfigNR, associated with sidelink DRB;
3>	if this procedure was due to the reception of a RRCReconfigurationSidelink message:
4>	configure the MAC entity with a logical channel in accordance with the sl-MAC-LogicalChannelConfigPC5 received in the RRCReconfigurationSidelink associated with the sidelink DRB, and perform the sidelink UE information procedure in clause 5.8.3 for unicast if needed;
3>	else if this procedure was due to the reception of a RRCReconfigurationCompleteSidelink message:
4>	configure the MAC entity with a logical channel associated with the sidelink DRB, in accordance with the sl-MAC-LogicalChannelConfig received in the sl-ConfigDedicatedNR, SIB12, SidelinkPreconfigNR;
3>	else (i.e. for groupcast/broadcast):
4>	configure the MAC entity with a logical channel associated with the sidelink DRB, in accordance with the sl-MAC-LogicalChannelConfig received in the sl-ConfigDedicatedNR, SIB12, SidelinkPreconfigNR and assign a new LCID to this logical channel.
1>	if the DRB is an end-to-end sidelink DRB and the UE is acting as L2 U2U Remote UE:
2>	trigger the UE information transfer procedure on sidelink as specified in 5.8.9.11.2;
NOTE 1:	When a sidelink DRB addition is due to the configuration by RRCReconfigurationSidelink, it is up to UE implementation to select the sidelink DRB configuration as necessary transmitting parameters for the sidelink DRB, from the received sl-ConfigDedicatedNR (if in RRC_CONNECTED), SIB12 (if in RRC_IDLE/INACTIVE), SidelinkPreconfigNR (if out of coverage) with the same RLC mode as the one configured in RRCReconfigurationSidelink.
For the sidelink DRB, whose sidelink DRB modification conditions are met as in clause 5.8.9.1a.2.1, the UE capable of NR sidelink communication that is configured by upper layers to perform NR sidelink communication shall:
1>	for groupcast and broadcast; or
1>	for unicast, if the sidelink DRB modification was triggered due to the reception of the RRCReconfigurationSidelink message; or
1>	for unicast, after receiving the RRCReconfigurationCompleteSidelink message, if the sidelink DRB modification was triggered due to the configuration received within the sl-ConfigDedicatedNR, SIB12 or SidelinkPreconfigNR:
2>	reconfigure the SDAP entity of the sidelink DRB, in accordance with the sl-SDAP-ConfigPC5 received in the RRCReconfigurationSidelink or sl-SDAP-Config received in sl-ConfigDedicatedNR, SIB12, SidelinkPreconfigNR, if included;
2>	reconfigure the PDCP entity of the sidelink DRB, in accordance with the sl-PDCP-ConfigPC5 received in the RRCReconfigurationSidelink or sl-PDCP-Config received in sl-ConfigDedicatedNR, SIB12, SidelinkPreconfigNR, if included;
2>	reconfigure the RLC entity of the sidelink DRB, in accordance with the sl-RLC-ConfigPC5 received in the RRCReconfigurationSidelink or sl-RLC-Config received in sl-ConfigDedicatedNR, SIB12, SidelinkPreconfigNR, if included;
2>	reconfigure the logical channel of the sidelink DRB, in accordance with the sl-MAC-LogicalChannelConfigPC5 received in the RRCReconfigurationSidelink or sl-MAC-LogicalChannelConfig received in sl-ConfigDedicatedNR, SIB12, SidelinkPreconfigNR, if included;
1>	if the DRB is an end-to-end sidelink DRB and the UE is acting as L2 U2U Remote UE:
2>	trigger the UE information transfer procedure on sidelink as specified in 5.8.9.11.2.
5.8.9.1a.3	Sidelink SRB release
The UE shall:
1>	if a PC5-RRC connection release for a specific destination is requested by upper layers or AS layer; or
1>	if the sidelink radio link failure is detected for a specific destination:
2>	release the PDCP entity, RLC entity and the logical channel of the sidelink SRB for PC5-RRC message of the specific destination;
2>	consider the PC5-RRC connection is released for the destination.
1>	if PC5-S transmission for a specific destination is terminated in upper layers:
2>	release the PDCP entity, RLC entity and the logical channel of the sidelink SRB(s) for PC5-S message of the specific destination if any;
1>	if discovery transmission for a specific destination is terminated in upper layers:
2>	release the PDCP entity, RLC entity and the logical channel of the sidelink SRB4 for discovery message of the specific destination;
1>	if an end-to-end PC5-RRC connection release/failure is detected:
2>	if the UE is acting L2 U2U Remote UE:
3>	release the PDCP entity of the end-to-end sidelink SRB for the end-to-end PC5 connection;
2>	release the association between the end-to-end sidelink SRB and the egress PC5 Relay RLC channel, and reconfigure SRAP configuration.
5.8.9.1a.4	Sidelink SRB addition
The UE shall:
1>	if transmission of PC5-S message for a specific destination is requested by upper layers for sidelink SRB:
2>	establish PDCP entity, RLC entity and the logical channel of a sidelink SRB for PC5-S message if needed, as specified in clause 9.1.1.4;
2>	if in coverage on the frequency used for the NR sidelink communication as defined in TS 38.304 [20]:
3>	indicate the allowed carrier for the RLC bearer of the SRB before the reception of initial RRCReconfigurationCompleteSidelink message which confirms SL CA carrier(s) addition as indicated in sl-FreqInfoList, to lower layer;
2>	else:
3>	indicate the allowed carrier for the RLC bearer of the SRB before the reception of initial RRCReconfigurationCompleteSidelink message which confirms SL CA carrier(s) addition as indicated in sl-PreconfigFreqInfoList, to lower layer;
1>	if transmission of discovery message for a specific destination is requested by upper layers for sidelink SRB:
2>	establish PDCP entity, RLC entity and the logical channel of a sidelink SRB4 for discovery message, as specified in clause 9.1.1.4;
1>	if a PC5-RRC connection establishment for a specific destination is indicated by upper layers:
2>	establish PDCP entity, RLC entity and the logical channel of a sidelink SRB for PC5-RRC message of the specific destination if needed, as specified in clause 9.1.1.4;
2>	consider the PC5-RRC connection is established for the destination;
2>	if in coverage on the frequency used for the NR sidelink communication as defined in TS 38.304 [20]:
3>	indicate the allowed carrier for the RLC bearer of the SRB before the reception of initial RRCReconfigurationCompleteSidelink message which confirms SL CA carrier(s) addition, as indicated in sl-FreqInfoList, to lower layer;
2>	else:
3>	indicate the allowed carrier for the RLC bearer of the SRB before the reception of initial RRCReconfigurationCompleteSidelink message which confirms SL CA carrier(s) addition as specified in clause 5.8.9.1.9, as indicated in sl-PreconfigFreqInfoList, to lower layer;
1>	for end-to-end SRB0/1/2/3:
2>	if the UE is acting L2 U2U Remote UE:
3>	consider the SL-U2U-RLC as specified in clause 9.1.1.4 as the egress PC5 Relay RLC channel;
4>	associate this end-to-end sidelink SRB with the SL-U2U-RLC and configure the mapping between the end-to-end sidelink SRB and the egress PC5 Relay RLC channel to SRAP.
5.8.9.1a.5	Additional Sidelink RLC Bearer release
5.8.9.1a.5.1	Additional Sidelink RLC Bearer release conditions
For NR sidelink communication, additional sidelink RLC bearer release is initiated in the following cases:
1>	for sidelink DRB, the release conditions are met as in clause 5.8.9.1a.1.1 for the associated sidelink DRB; or
1>	for sidelink SRB 1/2/3, the release conditions are met as in clause 5.8.9.1a.3 for the associated sidelink SRB; or
1>	for sidelink DRB, if SL-RLC-BearerConfigIndex (if any) of the sidelink DRB is included in sl-RLC-BearerToReleaseList in RRCReconfigurationSidelink; or
1>	for sidelink DRB, if SL-RLC-BearerConfigIndex (if any) of the additional Sidelink RLC Bearer is included in sl-RLC-BearerToReleaseListSizeExt in sl-ConfigDedicatedNR;
5.8.9.1a.5.2	Additional Sidelink RLC Bearer release operation
The UE shall:
1>	for groupcast and broadcast; or
1>	for unicast, after receiving the RRCReconfigurationCompleteSidelink message, if the additional sidelink RLC bearer release was triggered due to the configuration received within the sl-ConfigDedicatedNR:
2>	for each sl-RLC-BearerConfigIndex included in the received sl-RLC-BearerToReleaseListSizeExt in sl-ConfigDedicatedNR that is part of the current UE sidelink configuration:
3>	release the RLC entity and the corresponding logical channel of the additional sidelink RLC bearer for NR sidelink communication, associated with the sl-RLC-BearerConfigIndex.
1>	for unicast, if the additional sidelink RLC bearer release was triggered due to the reception of the RRCReconfigurationSidelink message:
2>	for each SL-RLC-BearerConfigIndex included in received sl-RLC-BearerToReleaseList in RRCReconfigurationSidelink that is part of the current UE sidelink configuration:
3>	release the RLC entity and the corresponding logical channel of the additional sidelink RLC bearer for NR sidelink communication associated with the SL-RLC-BearerConfigIndex;
1>	for unicast, after receiving the RRCReconfigurationCompleteSidelink message, if the additional sidelink RLC bearer release was triggered due to the configuration received within the SIB12, SidelinkPreconfigNR or indicated by upper layers:
2>	for each SL-RLC-BearerConfigIndex included in transmitted sl-RLC-BearerToReleaseList in RRCReconfigurationSidelink that is part of the current UE sidelink configuration:
3>	release the RLC entity and the corresponding logical channel of the additional sidelink RLC bearer for NR sidelink communication associated with the SL-RLC-BearerConfigIndex;
5.8.9.1a.6	Additional Sidelink RLC Bearer addition/modification
5.8.9.1a.6.1	Additional Sidelink RLC Bearer addition/modification conditions
For NR sidelink communication, additional sidelink RLC bearer addition is initiated only in the following cases:
1>	for unicast, for sidelink DRB, if SL-RLC-BearerConfig is received in sl-RLC-BearerToAddModList in the RRCReconfigurationSidelink for a slrb-PC5-ConfigIndex; or
1>	for groupcast and broadcast, for sidelink DRB, if SL-RLC-BearerConfig is received in sl-RLC-BearerToAddModListSizeExt in sl-ConfigDedicatedNR for a sl-ServedRadioBearer; or
1>	for unicast, for sidelink DRB, if SL-RLC-BearerConfig is received in sl-RLC-BearerToAddModListSizeExt in sl-ConfigDedicatedNR for a sl-ServedRadioBearer; or
1>	for groupcast and broadcast, for sidelink DRB, if SL-RLC-BearerConfig is received in sl-RLC-BearerConfigListSizeExt in SIB12 or in SidelinkPreconfigNR for a sl-ServedRadioBearer, if the sidelink DRB has been established as in clause 5.8.9.1a.2 and has not been released as in clause 5.8.9.1a.1, and if the SL-TxProfile of all associated QoS flow(s) for the sl-ServedRadioBearer indicates backwardsIncompatible; or
1>	for groupcast and broadcast, for sidelink DRB, if SL-RLC-BearerConfig is received in sl-RLC-BearerConfigListSizeExt in SIB12 or in SidelinkPreconfigNR for a sl-ServedRadioBearer, if the sidelink DRB has been established as in clause 5.8.9.1a.2 and has not been released as in clause 5.8.9.1a.1, and if the SL-TxProfile of at least one QoS flow for the sl-ServedRadioBearer indicates backwardsCompatible and UE decides to use PDCP duplication; or
1>	for unicast, for sidelink DRB, if SL-RLC-BearerConfig is received in sl-RLC-BearerConfigListSizeExt in SIB12 or in SidelinkPreconfigNR for a sl-ServedRadioBearer, and if both UEs support PDCP duplication; or
1>	for unicast, for sidelink SRB 1/2/3, if both UEs support PDCP duplication and UE decides to use PDCP duplication;
For NR sidelink communication, additional sidelink RLC bearer modification is initiated only in the following cases:
1>	if any of the additional sidelink RLC bearer related parameters is changed by sl-ConfigDedicatedNR, SIB12, SidelinkPreconfigNR or RRCReconfigurationSidelink for one additional sidelink RLC bearer, which is established;
5.8.9.1a.6.2	Additional Sidelink RLC Bearer addition/modification operation
For the additional Sidelink RLC bearer, whose addition conditions are met as in clause 5.8.9.1a.6.1, the UE capable of NR sidelink communication that is configured by upper layers to perform NR sidelink communication shall:
1>	for groupcast and broadcast; or
1>	for unicast, if the additional Sidelink RLC bearer addition was triggered due to the reception of the RRCReconfigurationSidelink message; or
1>	for unicast, for DRB, after receiving the RRCReconfigurationCompleteSidelink message, if the additional Sidelink RLC bearer addition was triggered due to the configuration received within the sl-ConfigDedicatedNR, SIB12, SidelinkPreconfigNR or indicated by upper layers; or
1>	for unicast, for SRB, after receiving the RRCReconfigurationCompleteSidelink message, if the additional Sidelink RLC bearer addition was decided by UE:
2>	establish an additional RLC entity for NR sidelink communication and configure it in accordance with each sl-RLC-ConfigPC5 received in the RRCReconfigurationSidelink or sl-RLC-Config received in sl-ConfigDedicatedNR, SIB12, SidelinkPreconfigNR for SL DRB, or as specified in clause 9.1.1.4 for SL SRB;
2>	if this procedure was for Sidelink DRB:
3>	if this procedure was due to the reception of a RRCReconfigurationSidelink message:
4>	configure the MAC entity with a logical channel in accordance with the sl-MAC-LogicalChannelConfigPC5 received in the RRCReconfigurationSidelink associated with the sidelink RLC entity;
3>	else if this procedure was due to the reception of a RRCReconfigurationCompleteSidelink message:
4>	configure the MAC entity with a logical channel associated with the sidelink RLC entity, in accordance with the sl-MAC-LogicalChannelConfig received in the sl-ConfigDedicatedNR, SIB12, SidelinkPreconfigNR;
3>	else (i.e. for groupcast/broadcast):
4>	configure the MAC entity with a logical channel associated with the sidelink RLC entity, in accordance with the sl-MAC-LogicalChannelConfig received in the sl-ConfigDedicatedNR, SIB12, SidelinkPreconfigNR and assign a new LCID to this logical channel.
3>	if the UE is in RRC_CONNECTED:
4>	indicate the allowed carriers for the two RLC bearers of the DRB, as indicated in sl-AllowedCarriers, to lower layer;
3>	else:
4>	indicate the allowed carriers for the two RLC bearers of the DRB, decided by UE implementation, from the sidelink carrier(s) mapped to the sidelink QoS flow(s) configured by the upper layer which is allowed carrier as indicated in sl-FregInfoList as specified in 5.8.9.1a.4 or is additional allowed carrier(s) as specified in 5.8.9.1b.1.2 and 5.8.9.1b.2.2, to lower layer, where the carrier indicated in sl-FreqInfoList is used for the RLC bearer if the SL-TxProfile of at least one associated QoS flow for the sl-ServedRadioBearer indicates backwardsCompatible, and the allowed carriers for the two RLC bearers are not overlapping with each other;
2>	else (i.e., if this procedure was for Sidelink SRB):
3>	configure the MAC entity with a logical channel associated with the sidelink RLC entity, as specified in clause 9.1.1.4.
3>	if the UE is in RRC_CONNECTED and if sl-AllowedCarrierFreqSet1/sl-AllowedCarrierFreqSet2 are configured:
4>	indicate the allowed carriers for the two RLC bearers of the SRB, as indicated in sl-AllowedCarrierFreqSet1/sl-AllowedCarrierFreqSet2, to lower layer;
3>	else:
4>	indicate the allowed carriers for the two RLC bearers of the SRB, decided by UE implementation, from the allowed carrier as indicated in sl-FregInfoList as specified in 5.8.9.1a.4 and additional allowed carrier(s) as specified in 5.8.9.1b.1.2 and 5.8.9.1b.2.2, to lower layer, where the allowed carriers for the two RLC bearers are not overlapping with each other;
For the additional Sidelink RLC bearer, whose modification conditions are met as in clause 5.8.9.1a.6.1, the UE capable of NR sidelink communication that is configured by upper layers to perform NR sidelink communication shall:
1>	for groupcast and broadcast; or
1>	for unicast, if the additional Sidelink RLC bearer modification was triggered due to the reception of the RRCReconfigurationSidelink message; or
1>	for unicast, after receiving the RRCReconfigurationCompleteSidelink message, if the additional Sidelink RLC bearer modification was triggered due to the configuration received within the sl-ConfigDedicatedNR, SIB12 or SidelinkPreconfigNR:
2>	reconfigure the RLC entity of the sidelink DRB, in accordance with the sl-RLC-ConfigPC5 received in the RRCReconfigurationSidelink or sl-RLC-Config received in sl-ConfigDedicatedNR, SIB12, SidelinkPreconfigNR, if included;
2>	reconfigure the logical channel of the sidelink DRB, in accordance with the sl-MAC-LogicalChannelConfigPC5 received in the RRCReconfigurationSidelink or sl-MAC-LogicalChannelConfig received in sl-ConfigDedicatedNR, SIB12, SidelinkPreconfigNR, if included.
5.8.9.1b	Sidelink Carrier Configuration
5.8.9.1b.1	Sidelink Carrier Release
5.8.9.1b.1.1	Sidelink Carrier Release Condition
For NR sidelink communication, sidelink carrier release is initiated in the following cases:
1>	for unicast, if sl-CarrierId of the sidelink carrier is received in sl-CarrierToReleaseList in the RRCReconfigurationSidelink; or
1>	for unicast, if a sidelink carrier failure has been indicated by MAC layer; or
1>	for unicast, if the sidelink carrier release was triggered due to the configuration received within the sl-ConfigDedicatedNR, SIB12, SidelinkPreconfigNR or upper layer; or
1>	for unicast, if the sidelink SRB(s), DRB(s) or additional sidelink RLC bearer(s), which was associated with the sidelink carrier(s), are released according to clause 5.8.9.1a.3.1, 5.8.9.1a.1.1 or 5.8.9.1a.5.1;
5.8.9.1b.1.2	Sidelink Carrier Release Operation
The UE shall:
1>	for unicast, if the sidelink carrier release was triggered due to the reception of the RRCReconfigurationSidelink message:
2>	for each sl-CarrierId value included in the sl-CarrierToReleaseList:
3>	if the current UE configuration includes a sidelink carrier with value sl-CarrierId:
4>	release the sidelink carrier for reception.
1>	for unicast, after receiving the RRCReconfigurationCompleteSidelink message, if the sidelink carrier release was triggered due to the configuration received within the sl-ConfigDedicatedNR, SIB12, SidelinkPreconfigNR or indicated by upper layers:
2>	for each sl-CarrierId value included in the sl-CarrierToReleaseList:
3>	if the current UE configuration includes a sidelink carrier with value sl-CarrierId:
4>	release the sidelink carrier for transmission;
4>	indicate the sidelink carrier not as allowed carrier for the RLC bearer of the SRB to lower layer;
4>	indicate the sidelink carrier not as additional allowed carrier for the RLC bearer of the DRB(s), to lower layer.
5.8.9.1b.2	Sidelink Carrier Addition
5.8.9.1b.2.1	Sidelink Carrier Addition Condition
For NR sidelink communication, sidelink carrier addition is initiated in the following cases:
1>	for unicast, if sl-CarrierId of the sidelink carrier is received in sl-CarrierToAddModList in the RRCReconfigurationSidelink; or
1>	for unicast, if a sidelink SRB(s), DRB(s) or additional sidelink RLC bearer(s), which is associated with the sidelink carrier(s) (taking into account at least carrier(s) mapped to the sidelink QoS flow(s) configured by the upper layer, carriers configured in sl-ConfigDedicatedNR, SIB12 or SidelinkPreconfigNR, and carrier(s) supported by both UEs), are established according to clause 5.8.9.1a.4, 5.8.9.1a.2.1 or 5.8.9.1a.6.1;
5.8.9.1b.2.2	Sidelink Carrier Addition Operation
The UE shall:
1>	for unicast, if the sidelink carrier addition was triggered due to the reception of the RRCReconfigurationSidelink message:
2>	for each sl-CarrierId value included in the sl-CarrierToAddModList that is not part of the current UE configuration (sidelink carrier addition):
3>	add the sidelink carrier, corresponding to the sl-CarrierId, in accordance with the sl-OffsetToCarrier, subcarrierSpacing, carrierBandwidth and sl-AbsoluteFrequencyPointA for reception;
1>	for unicast, after receiving the RRCReconfigurationCompleteSidelink message, if the sidelink carrier addition was triggered due to the configuration received within the sl-ConfigDedicatedNR, SIB12, SidelinkPreconfigNR or indicated by upper layers:
2>	for each sl-CarrierId value included in the sl-CarrierToAddModList that is not part of the current UE configuration (sidelink carrier addition):
3>	add the sidelink carrier, corresponding to the sl-CarrierId, in accordance with the sl-AbsoluteFrequencyPointA for transmission;
3>	indicate the sidelink carrier as additional allowed carrier for the RLC bearer of the SRB, in addition to carrier as indicated in sl-FreqInfoList, from carrier(s) mapped to the sidelink QoS flow(s) configured by the upper layer, to lower layer;
3>	indicate the sidelink carrier as additional allowed carrier for the RLC bearer of the DRB(s), for which the sidelink carrier is mapped to the sidelink QoS flow(s) configured by the upper layer, to lower layer;
5.8.9.2	Sidelink UE capability transfer
5.8.9.2.1	General
This clause describes how the UE compiles and transfers its sidelink UE capability information for unicast to the initiating UE.

Figure 5.8.9.2.1-1: Sidelink UE capability transfer
5.8.9.2.2	Initiation
The UE may initiate the sidelink UE capability transfer procedure upon indication from upper layer when it needs (additional) UE radio access capability information.
5.8.9.2.3	Actions related to transmission of the UECapabilityEnquirySidelink by the UE
The initiating UE shall set the contents of UECapabilityEnquirySidelink message as follows:
1>	include in UE radio access capabilities for sidelink within ue-CapabilityInformationSidelink, if needed;
NOTE 1:	It is up to initiating UE to decide whether ue-CapabilityInformationSidelink should be included.
1>	set frequencyBandListFilterSidelink to include frequency bands for which the peer UE is requested to provide supported bands and band combinations;
NOTE 2:	The initiating UE is not allowed to send the UECapabilityEnquirySidelink message without including the field frequencyBandListFilterSidelink except for end-to-end L2 U2U relay NR sidelink communication.
1>	submit the UECapabilityEnquirySidelink message to lower layers for transmission.
5.8.9.2.4	Actions related to reception of the UECapabilityEnquirySidelink by the UE
The peer UE shall set the contents of UECapabilityInformationSidelink message as follows:
1>	include UE radio access capabilities for sidelink within ue-CapabilityInformationSidelink;
1>	compile a list of "candidate band combinations" only consisting of bands included in frequencyBandListFilterSidelink, and prioritized in the order of frequencyBandListFilterSidelink (i.e. first include band combinations containing the first-listed band, then include remaining band combinations containing the second-listed band, and so on).
1>	include into supportedBandCombinationListSidelinkNR as many band combinations as possible from the list of "candidate band combinations", starting from the first entry;
1>	include the received frequencyBandListFilterSidelink in the field appliedFreqBandListFilter of the requested UE capability;
1>	submit the UECapabilityInformationSidelink message to lower layers for transmission.
NOTE 1:	If the UE cannot include all band combinations due to message size or list size constraints, it is up to UE implementation which band combinations it prioritizes.
NOTE 2:	It is up to UE implementation whether to include fields other than pdcp-ParametersSidelink in the UECapabilityInformationSidelink message for end-to-end L2 U2U relay NR sidelink communication.
5.8.9.3	Sidelink radio link failure related actions
The UE shall:
1>	upon indication from sidelink RLC entity that the maximum number of retransmissions for a specific destination has been reached; or
1>	upon T400 expiry for a specific destination; or
1>	upon indication from MAC entity that HARQ-based Sidelink RLF for a specific destination has been detected; or
1>	upon integrity check failure indication from sidelink PDCP entity concerning SL-SRB2 or SL-SRB3 for a specific destination; or
1>	upon indication of consistent sidelink LBT failures for all RB sets for a specific destination from MAC entity:
2>	consider sidelink radio link failure to be detected for this destination;
2>	release the DRBs (if any) of this destination, according to clause 5.8.9.1a.1;
2>	release the SRBs of this destination, according to clause 5.8.9.1a.3;
2>	release the PC5 Relay RLC channels of this destination if configured, in according to clause 5.8.9.7.1;
2>	discard the NR sidelink communication related configuration of this destination;
2>	reset the sidelink specific MAC of this destination, except for end-to-end PC5 connection in L2 U2U Relay operation;
2>	consider the PC5-RRC connection is released for the destination;
2>	indicate the release of the PC5-RRC connection to the upper layers for this destination (i.e. PC5 is unavailable);
2>	if UE is in RRC_CONNECTED:
3>	if the UE is acting as L2 U2N Remote UE for the destination:
4>	if MP is configured, and neither MCG transmission nor indirect path transmission is suspended:
5>	initiate the indirect path failure information procedure as specified in 5.7.3c;
4>	else (i.e., MP is not configured, or MP is configured and MCG transmission or indirect path transmission is suspended):
5>	initiate the RRC connection re-establishment procedure as specified in 5.3.7;
3>	else:
4>	perform the sidelink UE information for NR sidelink communication procedure, as specified in 5.8.3.3;
2>	if the UE is acting as L2 U2U Relay UE for the destination which identifies a connected L2 U2U Remote UE:
3>	consider the end-to-end PC5 connection failure for the end-to-end PC5 connection(s) over the per-hop PC5 link established with the L2 U2U Remote UE;
3>	send NotificationMessageSidelink to the peer L2 U2U Remote UE(s) of the end-to-end PC5 connection(s), in accordance with 5.8.9.10.
3>	initiate the end-to-end PC5 connection failure related actions as specified in 5.8.9.3b;
2>	if the UE is acting as L2 U2U Remote UE for the destination which identifies a connected L2 U2U Relay UE:
3>	consider the end-to-end PC5 connection failure for the end-to-end PC5 connection(s) over the per-hop PC5 link established with the L2 U2U Relay UE;
3>	initiate the end-to-end PC5 connection failure related actions as specified in 5.8.9.3a;
NOTE:	It is up to UE implementation on whether and how to indicate to upper layers to maintain the keep-alive procedure [55].
5.8.9.3a	End-to-end PC5 connection failure related actions performed by L2 U2U Remote UE
The UE acting as NR sidelink L2 U2U Remote UE shall:
1>	upon detection of end-to-end PC5 connection failure due to per-hop PC5 link failure, in accordance with clause 5.8.9.3; or
1>	upon detection of end-to-end PC5 connection failure due to per-hop PC5 link release, in accordance with clause 5.8.9.5; or
1>	upon T400 expiry for an end-to-end PC5 connection; or
1>	upon integrity check failure indication from sidelink PDCP entity concerning SL-SRB2 or SL-SRB3 for an end-to-end PC5 connection; or
1>	upon detection end-to-end PC5 connection failure due to reception of NotificationMessageSidelink indicating PC5 RLF from the L2 U2U Relay UE for a specific destination based on the received sl-DestinationIdentityRemoteUE, in accordance with clause 5.8.9.10.4:
2>	release the end-to-end DRBs for this end-to-end PC5 connection, according to clause 5.8.9.1a.1;
2>	release the end-to-end SRBs for this end-to-end PC5 connection, according to clause 5.8.9.1a.3;
2>	discard the end-to-end NR sidelink communication related radio resources and configuration for this end-to-end PC5 connection, including local ID pair in SRAP configuration;
2>	consider the end-to-end PC5-RRC connection is released for this end-to-end PC5 connection;
2>	indicate the release of the end-to-end PC5-RRC connection to the upper layers;
2>	if the end-to-end PC5 connection failure is due to T400 expiry or integrity check failure of SL-SRB2 or SL-SRB3:
3>	send RemoteUEInformationSidelink message to the L2 U2U Relay UE of the end-to-end PC5 connection(s) in accordance with 5.8.9.8.2;
1>	if the PC5 link between the UE and L2 U2U relay UE is not needed for U2U relay operation, but not released:
2>	if the UE is in RRC_IDLE or RRC_INACTIVE or out of coverage:
3>	trigger the PC5 Relay RLC channel derivation procedure, according to clause 5.8.9.7.0.
5.8.9.3b	End-to-end PC5 connection failure/release related actions performed by L2 U2U Relay UE
The UE acting as NR sidelink L2 U2U Relay UE shall:
1>	upon detection end-to-end PC5 connection failure due to per-hop PC5 link failure, in accordance with clause 5.8.9.3; or
1>	upon detection end-to-end PC5 connection failure due to per-hop PC5 link release, in accordance with clause 5.8.9.5; or
1>	upon reception of RemoteUEInfomationSidelink indicating end-to-end connection release or failure for a specific destination based on the received sl-DestinationIdentityRemoteUE, in accordance with clause 5.8.9.8.3:
2>	discard the end-to-end NR sidelink communication related radio resources and configuration for this end-to-end PC5 connection, including end-to-end SRB/DRB related configuration, QoS related configuration, SRAP configuration;
2>	if the PC5 link between L2 U2U relay UE and the peer L2 U2U remote UE is still available:
3>	if the UE is in RRC_IDLE or RRC_INACTIVE or out of coverage:
4>	trigger the PC5 Relay RLC channel deriviation procedure, according to clause 5.8.9.7.0;
3>	if the UE is in RRC_CONNECTED:
4>	initiate sidelink UE information procedure according to clause 5.8.3.2.
5.8.9.4	Sidelink common control information
5.8.9.4.1	General
The sidelink common control information is carried by MasterInformationBlockSidelink. The sidelink common control information may change at any transmission, i.e. neither a modification period nor a change notification mechanism is used. This procedure also applies to NR sidelink discovery.
A UE configured to receive or transmit NR sidelink communication/discovery/positioning shall:
1>	if the UE has a selected SyncRef UE, as specified in 5.8.6:
2>	ensure having a valid version of the MasterInformationBlockSidelink message of that SyncRef UE;
5.8.9.4.2	Actions related to reception of MasterInformationBlockSidelink message
Upon receiving MasterInformationBlockSidelink, the UE shall:
1>	apply the values included in the received MasterInformationBlockSidelink message.
5.8.9.4.3	Transmission of MasterInformationBlockSidelink message
The UE shall set the contents of the MasterInformationBlockSidelink message as follows:
1>	if in coverage on the frequency used for the NR sidelink communication/positioning as defined in TS 38.304 [20].
2>	set inCoverage to true;
2>	if tdd-UL-DL-ConfigurationCommon is included in the received SIB1:
3>	set sl-TDD-Config to the value representing the same meaning as that is included in tdd-UL-DL-ConfigurationCommon, as described in TS 38.213, clause 16.1 [13];
2>	else:
3>	set sl-TDD-Config to the value as specified in TS 38.213 [13], clause 16.1;
2>	if syncInfoReserved is included in an entry of configured sl-SyncConfigList corresponding to the concerned frequency from the received SIB12:
3>	set reservedBits to the value of syncInfoReserved in the received SIB12;
2>	else:
3>	set all bits in reservedBits to 0;
1>	else if out of coverage on the frequency used for NR sidelink communication/positioning as defined in TS 38.304 [20]; and the concerned frequency is included in sl-FreqInfoToAddModList/sl-FreqInfoToAddModListExt in RRCReconfiguration or in sl-FreqInfoList/sl-FreqInfoListSizeExt within SIB12:
2>	set inCoverage to true;
2>	set reservedBits to the value of the corresponding field included in the preconfigured sidelink parameters (i.e. sl-PreconfigGeneral in SidelinkPreconfigNR defined in 9.3);
2>	set sl-TDD-Config to the value representing the same meaning as that is included in the corresponding field included in the preconfigured sidelink parameters (i.e. sl-PreconfigGeneral in SL-PreconfigurationNR defined in 9.3) as described in TS 38.213, clause 16.1 [13];
1>	else if out of coverage on the frequency used for NR sidelink communication/positioning as defined in TS 38.304 [20]; and the UE selects GNSS as the synchronization reference and sl-SSB-TimeAllocation3 is not configured for the frequency used in SidelinkPreconfigNR:
2>	set inCoverage to true;
2>	set reservedBits to the value of the corresponding field included in the preconfigured sidelink parameters (i.e. sl-PreconfigGeneral in SidelinkPreconfigNR defined in 9.3);
2>	set sl-TDD-Config to the value representing the same meaning as that is included in the corresponding field included in the preconfigured sidelink parameters (i.e. sl-PreconfigGeneral in SL-PreconfigurationNR defined in 9.3) as described in TS 38.213, clause 16.1 [13];
1>	else if the UE has a selected SyncRef UE (as defined in 5.8.6):
2>	set inCoverage to false;
2>	set sl-TDD-Config and reservedBits to the value of the corresponding field included in the received MasterInformationBlockSidelink;
1>	else:
2>	set inCoverage to false;
2>	set reservedBits to the value of the corresponding field included in the preconfigured sidelink parameters (i.e. sl-PreconfigGeneral in SidelinkPreconfigNR defined in 9.3);
2> set sl-TDD-Config to the value representing the same meaning as that is included in the corresponding field included in the preconfigured sidelink parameters (i.e. sl-PreconfigGeneral in SL-PreconfigurationNR defined in 9.3) as described in TS 38.213, clause 16.1 [13];
1>	set directFrameNumber and slotIndex according to the slot used to transmit the SLSS, as specified in 5.8.5.3;
1>	submit the MasterInformationBlockSidelink to lower layers for transmission upon which the procedure ends;
5.8.9.5	Actions related to PC5-RRC connection release requested by upper layers
The UE initiates the procedure when upper layers request the release of the PC5-RRC connection as specified in TS 24.587 [57] or TS 24.554 [72]. The UE shall not initiate the procedure for power saving purposes.
The UE shall:
1>	if the PC5-RRC connection release for the specific destination is requested by upper layers:
2>	discard the NR sidelink communication related configuration of this destination;
2>	release the DRBs of this destination if configured, in according to clause 5.8.9.1a.1;
2>	release the SRBs of this destination, in according to clause 5.8.9.1a.3;
2>	release the PC5 Relay RLC channels if configured, in according to clause 5.8.9.7.1;
2>	reset the sidelink specific MAC of this destination except for end-to-end PC5-RRC connection in L2 U2U relay operation.
2>	consider the PC5-RRC connection is released for the destination;
2>	if the UE is acting as MP remote UE, and this destination identifies a connected MP relay UE:
3>	if neither MCG transmission nor indirect path transmission is suspended:
4>	initiate the indirect path failure information procedure as specified in 5.7.3c to report indirect path failure;
3>	else if T301 is not running:
4>	initiate the RRC connection re-establishment procedure as specified in 5.3.7;
2>	if the UE is acting as L2 U2U Remote UE, and this destination identifies a connected L2 U2U Relay UE:
3>	consider the end-to-end PC5 connection failure for the end-to-end PC5 connection(s) over the per-hop PC5 link established with the L2 U2U Relay UE;
3>	initiate the end-to-end PC5 connection failure related actions as specified in 5.8.9.3a;
2>	if the UE is acting as L2 U2U Relay UE, and this destination identifies a connected L2 U2U Remote UE:
3>	consider the end-to-end PC5 connection failure for the end-to-end PC5 connection(s) over the per-hop PC5 link established with the L2 U2U Remote UE;
3>	send NotificationMessageSidelink message to the peer L2 U2U Remote UE(s) for the end-to-end PC5 connection(s) in accordance with 5.8.9.10;
3>	initiate the end-to-end PC5 connection failure related actions as specified in 5.8.9.3b;
5.8.9.5a	Actions related to end-to-end PC5-RRC connection release performed by L2 U2U Remote UE
The UE acting as sidelink L2 U2U Remote UE shall:
1>	if the end-to-end PC5-RRC connection release is requested by upper layers as specified in TS 23.304 [65]:
2>	release the end-to-end DRBs for this end-to-end PC5-RRC connection if configured, in according to clause 5.8.9.1a.1;
2>	release the end-to-end SRBs for this end-to-end PC5-RRC connection, in according to clause 5.8.9.1a.3;
2>	discard all the radio resources and configuration for this end-to-end PC5-RRC connection, including local ID pair in SRAP configuration;
2>	consider the end-to-end PC5-RRC connection is released for this end-to-end PC5-RRC connection;
2>	send RemoteUEInformationSidelink message to the L2 U2U Relay UE of the end-to-end PC5 connection(s) in accordance with 5.8.9.8.2;
5.8.9.6	Sidelink UE assistance information
5.8.9.6.1	General

Figure 5.8.9.6.1-1: Sidelink UE assistance information
The purpose of this procedure is for a UE to inform its peer UE of the sidelink DRX assistance information used to determine the sidelink DRX configuration for unicast communication.
For sidelink unicast, a UE may include its desired sidelink DRX configurations in the UEAssistanceInformationSidelink as the sidelink DRX assistance information which is transmitted to its peer UE.
NOTE:	It is up to UE implementation to determine its desired sidelink DRX configurations for unicast communication.
5.8.9.6.2	Initiation
For sidelink unicast, if both a RX UE and its peer TX UE for a direction of sidelink communication are capable of sidelink DRX, the RX UE that is interested in sending the sidelink DRX assistance information may send the UEAssistanceInformationSidelink as the sidelink DRX assistance information to its peer UE when the sidelink DRX assistance information has not been sent previously or when the previously transmitted sidelink DRX assistance information has changed.
5.8.9.6.3	Actions related to reception of UEAssistanceInformationSidelink message
For sidelink unicast, when a UE is in RRC_CONNECTED and is performing sidelink operation with resource allocation mode 1, it may report the sidelink DRX assistance information received within the UEAssistanceInformationSidelink from its peer UE to the network as specified in 5.8.3. For sidelink unicast, when a UE is in RRC_CONNECTED and is performing sidelink operation with resource allocation mode 2 or is in RRC_IDLE or RRC_INACTIVE or out of coverage, regardless of whether the UE has obtained the sidelink DRX assistance information from the UEAssistanceInformationSidelink transmitted from its peer UE or not, it may determine the sidelink DRX configuration SL-DRX-ConfigUC for its peer UE.
NOTE:	When UE determines the sidelink DRX configuration for its peer UE, it may take the sidelink DRX assistance information received from its peer UE into account.
5.8.9.7	PC5 Relay RLC channel management for L2 U2N or U2U relay
5.8.9.7.0	Deriviation of PC5 Relay RLC channel configuration
An L2 U2U Remote UE/L2 U2U Relay UE in RRC_IDLE or in RRC_INACTIVE or out of coverage shall derive PC5 Relay RLC channel configuration based on the per-hop QoS requirements. The update of the PC5 Relay RLC channel configuration can be triggered upon reception of the UEInformationRequestSidelink or UEInformationResponseSidelink due to the update of the per-hop QoS requirements, as described in clause 5.8.9.11.3 and 5.8.9.11.4, or upon detection of end-to-end PC5 connection failure/release, as described in clause 5.8.9.3a and 5.8.9.3b. The UE shall perform PC5 Relay RLC channel release/addition/modification procedure when the corresponding PC5 Relay RLC channel configuration is released/added/modified.
The source L2 U2U Remote UE and L2 U2U Relay UE derive the configuration for the corresponding PC5 Relay RLC channel based on SIB12/Preconfiguration, as follows:
-	The source L2 U2U Remote UE derives the configuration for the PC5 Relay RLC channel(s) between the source L2 U2U Remote UE and L2 U2U Relay UE (i.e. the first hop PC5 Relay RLC channel(s)), by aggregating the QoS profile(s) of the QoS flow(s) with split QoS information on the first hop into a per-SLRB level QoS profile for each end-to-end sidelink DRB as described in clause 5.8.9.11.4, and considering the SL-RLC-BearerConfig in either sl-RLC-BearerConfigList or sl-RLC-BearerPreConfigList (linked to the SL-RadioBearerConfig which matches the per-SLRB level QoS profile) as the first hop PC5 Relay RLC channel configuration.
-	The L2 U2U Relay UE derives the configuration for the PC5 Relay RLC channel(s) between L2 U2U Relay UE and the target L2 U2U Remote UE (i.e. the second hop PC5 Relay RLC channel(s)), by aggregating the QoS profile(s) of the QoS flow(s) with split QoS information on the second hop into a per-SLRB level QoS profile for each end-to-end sidelink DRB as described in clause 5.8.9.11.3, and considering the SL-RLC-BearerConfig in either sl-RLC-BearerConfigList or sl-RLC-BearerPreConfigList (linked to the SL-RadioBearerConfig which matches the per-SLRB level QoS profile) as the second hop PC5 Relay RLC channel configuration.
5.8.9.7.1	PC5 Relay RLC channel release
The UE shall:
1>	if the PC5 Relay RLC channel release was triggered after the reception of the RRCReconfigurationSidelink message; or
1>	after receiving the RRCReconfigurationCompleteSidelink message, if the PC5 Relay RLC channel release was triggered due to the configuration received within the sl-ConfigDedicatedNR:
2>	for each SL-RLC-ChannelID in sl-RLC-ChannelToReleaseList received in sl-ConfigDedicatedNR within RRCReconfiguration, or for each SL-RLC-ChannelID included in the received sl-RLC-ChannelToReleaseListPC5 that is part of the current UE sidelink configuration:
3>	release the RLC entity and the corresponding logical channel associated with the SL-RLC-ChannelID;
1>	after receiving the RRCReconfigurationCompleteSidelink message, if the PC5 Relay RLC channel release was triggered based on the derivation of PC5 Relay RLC channel configuration for end-to-end sidelink DRB(s) as specified in 5.8.9.7.0:
2>	release the RLC entity and the corresponding logical channel;
1>	if the PC5 Relay RLC channel release was triggered for a specific destination by upper layers as specified in 5.8.9.5, or due to sidelink RLF as specified in 5.8.9.3:
2>	release the RLC entity and the corresponding logical channel associated with the SL-RLC-ChannelID of the specific destination.
5.8.9.7.2	PC5 Relay RLC channel addition/modification
Upon PC5-RRC connection establishment between the L2 U2N Relay UE and L2 U2N Remote UE, the L2 U2N Relay UE shall:
1>	establish a SRAP entity as specified in TS 38.351 [66], if no SRAP entity has been established;
1>	apply RLC specified configuration of SL-RLC0 as specified in clause 9.1.1.4:
1>	apply RLC default configuration of SL-RLC1 as defined in clause 9.2.4 if the L2 U2N Relay UE is in RRC_IDLE/INACTIVE state;
Upon PC5-RRC connection establishment between two UEs for L2 U2U relay operation, the L2 U2U Relay UE and the L2 U2U Remote UE shall:
1>	establish a SRAP entity as specified in TS 38.351 [66], if no SRAP entity has been established;
1>	apply RLC specified configuration of SL-U2U-RLC as specified in clause 9.1.1.4;
The UE shall:
1>	if the PC5 Relay RLC channel addition/modification was triggered due to the reception of the RRCReconfigurationSidelink message; or
1>	after receiving the RRCReconfigurationCompleteSidelink message, if the PC5 Relay RLC channel addition/modification was triggered due to the configuration received within the sl-ConfigDedicatedNR; or
1>	after receiving the RRCReconfigurationCompleteSidelink message, if the PC5 Relay RLC channel addition/modification was triggered based on the derivation of PC5 Relay RLC channel configuration(s) for end-to-end sidelink DRB(s) as specified in 5.8.9.7.0:
2>	if the current configuration contains a PC5 Relay RLC channel with the received sl-RLC-ChannelID or sl-RLC-ChannelID-PC5; or
2>	if the configuration in SIB12 or SidelinkPreconfigNR has updated, based on which the PC5 Relay RLC channel is derived:
3>	reconfigure the sidelink RLC entity in accordance with the received sl-RLC-Config or sl-RLC-ConfigPC5;
3>	reconfigure the sidelink MAC entity with a logical channel in accordance with the received sl-MAC-LogicalChannelConfig or sl-MAC-LogicalChannelConfigPC5;
2>	else (a PC5 Relay RLC channel with the received sl-RLC-ChannelID or sl-RLC-ChannelID-PC5 was not configured before):
3>	establish a sidelink RLC entity in accordance with the received sl-RLC-Config (in sl-ConfigDedicatedNR, or SIB12, or SidelinkPreconfigNR) or sl-RLC-ConfigPC5;
3>	configure the sidelink MAC entity with a logical channel in accordance with the received sl-MAC-LogicalChannelConfig or sl-MAC-LogicalChannelConfigPC5.
5.8.9.8	Remote UE information
5.8.9.8.1	General

Figure 5.8.9.8.1-1: Remote UE information
This procedure is used by the L2 U2N Remote UE in RRC_IDLE/RRC_INACTIVE to inform about the required SIB(s) /posSIB(s), provide Paging related information to the connected L2 U2N Relay UE, request the SFN-DFN offset from the connected L2 U2N Relay UE, and trigger L2 U2N Relay UE in RRC_IDLE/RRC_INACTIVE to enter RRC_CONNECTED during indirect path addition/change in MP operation. This procedure is also used by the L2 U2U Remote UE to send end-to-end PC5 connection release/failure related information to L2 U2U Relay UE.
This procedure is used by the L2 U2N Remote UE in RRC_CONNECTED to request the SFN-DFN offset from the connected L2 U2N Relay UE.
NOTE:	MIB is not required by a L2 U2N Remote UE.
5.8.9.8.2	Actions related to transmission of RemoteUEInformationSidelink message
When entering RRC_IDLE or RRC_INACTIVE, or upon change in any of the information in the RemoteUEInformationSidelink while in RRC_IDLE or RRC_INACTIVE, the L2 U2N Remote UE shall:
1>	if the UE has SIB request information to provide (e.g. the UE has not stored a valid version of a SIB, in accordance with clause 5.2.2.2.1, of one or several required SIB(s) in accordance with clause 5.2.2.1 and the requested SIB has not been indicated in RemoteUEInformationSidelink message to the L2 U2N Relay UE before):
2>	include sl-RequestedSIB-List in the RemoteUEInformationSidelink to indicate the requested SIB(s);
1>	if the UE has not stored a valid version, in accordance with clause 5.2.2.2.1, of one or several posSIB(s) that the UE requires for a positioning operation, and the requested posSIB has not been indicated in RemoteUEInformationSidelink message to the L2 U2N Relay UE before, and the connected L2 U2N relay UE set posSIB-ForwardingSupported to supported:
2>	include sl-RequestedPosSIB-List in the RemoteUEInformationSidelink to indicate the requested posSIB(s);
1>	if the UE needs the SFN-DFN offset based on the request from upper layers and the connected L2 U2N relay UE set sfn-DFN-OffsetSupported to supported:
2>	set sl-SFN-DFN-OffsetRequested to true;
1>	if the UE has paging related information to provide (e.g. the UE has not sent sl-PagingInfo-RemoteUE in the RemoteUEInformationSidelink message to the L2 U2N Relay UE before), set sl-PagingInfo-RemoteUE as follows:
2>	if the L2 U2N Remote UE is in RRC_IDLE:
3>	include ng-5G-S-TMSI in the sl-PagingIdentityRemoteUE;
3>	if the UE specific DRX cycle is configured by upper layer, set sl-PagingCycleRemoteUE to the value of UE specific Uu DRX cycle configured by upper layer;
2>	else if the L2 U2N Remote UE is in RRC_INACTIVE:
3>	include ng-5G-S-TMSI and fullI-RNTI in the sl-PagingIdentityRemoteUE;
3>	if the UE specific DRX cycle is configured by upper layer,
4>	set sl-PagingCycleRemoteUE to the minimum value of UE specific Uu DRX cycles (configured by upper layer and configured by RRC);
3>	else:
4>	set sl-PagingCycleRemoteUE to the value of UE specific DRX cycle configured by RRC;
1>	submit the RemoteUEInformationSidelink message to lower layers for transmission;
When entering RRC_CONNECTED, if L2 U2N remote UE had sent sl-RequestedSIB-List, sl-RequestedPosSIB-List, and/or sl-PagingInfo-RemoteUE, the L2 U2N Remote UE shall:
1>	set the sl-RequestedSIB-List to the value release if requested before;
1>	set the sl-RequestedPosSIB-List to the value release if requested before;
1>	set the sl-PagingInfo-RemoteUE to the value release if sent before;
1>	submit the RemoteUEInformationSidelink message to lower layers for transmission;
Upon any change in the need of SFN-DFN offset while in RRC_CONNECTED, the L2 U2N Remote UE shall:
1>	if the UE needs the SFN-DFN offset based on the request from upper layers and the connected L2 U2N relay UE set sfn-DFN-OffsetSupported to supported:
2>	set sl-SFN-DFN-OffsetRequested to true;
1>	submit the RemoteUEInformationSidelink message to lower layers for transmission;
The L2 U2N Remote UE in RRC_CONNECTED shall:
1>	if the UE is configured with sl-IndirectPathAddChange set to setup, and not configured with split SRB1 with duplication:
2>	include connectionForMP;
2>	submit the RemoteUEInformationSidelink message to lower layers for transmission;
The L2 U2U Remote UE shall:
1>	upon end-to-end PC5-RRC connection release; or
1>	upon end-to-end PC5-RRC connection failure due to T400 expiry or integrity check failure of SL-SRB2 or SL-SRB3:
2>	include sl-DestinationIdentityRemoteUE;
2>	submit the RemoteUEInformationSidelink message to lower layers for transmission;
5.8.9.8.3	Reception of RemoteUEInformationSidelink message by the L2 U2N/U2U Relay UE
The L2 U2N Relay UE shall:
1>	if the RemoteUEInformationSidelink includes the sl-PagingInfo-RemoteUE:
2>	if the UE is in RRC_CONNECTED on an active BWP with common search space configured including pagingSearchSpace; or
2>	if the UE is in RRC_IDLE or RRC_INACTIVE:
3>	if the sl-PagingInfo-RemoteUE is set to setup:
4>	monitor the Paging message at the L2 U2N Remote UE's paging occasion calculated according to sl-PagingIdentityRemoteUE and sl-PagingCycleRemoteUE included in sl-PagingInfo-RemoteUE;
3>	else (the sl-PagingInfo-RemoteUE is set to release):
4>	stop monitoring the Paging message at the L2 U2N Remote UE's paging occasion;
4>	release the received paging information in sl-PagingInfo-RemoteUE;
2>	else (the UE is in RRC_CONNECTED on an active BWP without pagingSearchSpace configured):
3>	if the sl-PagingInfo-RemoteUE is set to setup:
4>	include the received sl-PagingIdentityRemoteUE in SidelinkUEInformationNR message and perform Sidelink UE information transmission in accordance with 5.8.3;
3>	else (the sl-PagingInfo-RemoteUE is set to release):
4>	initiate transmission of the SidelinkUEInformationNR message to release the sl-PagingIdentityRemoteUE in SidelinkUEInformationNR message in accordance with 5.8.3;
4>	release the received paging information in sl-PagingInfo-RemoteUE;
1>	if the RemoteUEInformationSidelink includes the sl-RequestedSIB-List:
2>	if the sl-RequestedSIB-List is set to setup:
3> if the L2 U2N Relay UE has not stored a valid version of SIB(s) indicated in sl-RequestedSIB-List:
4>	perform acquisition of the system information indicated in sl-RequestedSIB-List in accordance with 5.2.2;
3>	perform the Uu message transfer procedure in accordance with 5.8.9.9;
2>	if the sl-RequestedSIB-List is set to release:
3>	release received SIB request in sl-RequestedSIB-List;
1>	if the RemoteUEInformationSidelink includes the sl-RequestedPosSIB-List:
2>	if the sl-RequestedPosSIB-List is set to setup:
3> if the L2 U2N Relay UE has not stored a valid version of posSIB(s) indicated in sl-RequestedPosSIB-List:
4>	perform acquisition of the positioning system information indicated in sl-RequestedPosSIB-List in accordance with 5.2.2;
3>	perform the Uu message transfer procedure in accordance with 5.8.9.9;
2>	if the sl-RequestedPosSIB-List is set to release:
3>	release received posSIB request in sl-RequestedPosSIB-List.
1>	if the RemoteUEInformationSidelink includes the connectionForMP:
2>	if the L2 U2N Relay UE is in RRC_IDLE:
3>	initiate an RRC connection establishment as specified in 5.3.3;
2>	else if the L2 U2N Relay UE is in RRC_INACTIVE:
3>	initiate an RRC connection resume as specified in 5.3.13;
The L2 U2U Relay UE shall:
1>	if the RemoteUEInformationSidelink includes the sl-DestinationIdentityRemoteUE:
2>	consider the end-to-end PC5 connection release for the end-to-end PC5 connection between the L2 U2U Remote UE and the peer L2 U2U Remote UE identified by sl-DestinationIdentityRemoteUE;
2>	initiate the end-to-end PC5 connection failure/release related actions as specified in 5.8.9.3b;
5.8.9.9	Uu message transfer in sidelink
5.8.9.9.1	General

Figure 5.8.9.9.1-1: Uu message transfer in sidelink
The purpose of this procedure is to transfer Paging message and System Information from the L2 U2N Relay UE to the L2 U2N Remote UE in RRC_IDLE/RRC_INACTIVE.
5.8.9.9.2	Actions related to transmission of UuMessageTransferSidelink message
The L2 U2N Relay UE initiates the Uu message transfer procedure when at least one of the following conditions is met:
1>	upon receiving Paging message related to the connected L2 U2N Remote UE from network (including Paging message within RRCReconfiguration message);
1>	upon acquisition of the SIB(s) requested by the connected L2 U2N Remote UE (as indicated in sl-RequestedSIB-List in the RemoteUEInformationSidelink) or upon receiving the updated SIB(s) from network which has been requested by the connected L2 U2N Remote UE;
1>	upon acquisition of the posSIB(s) requested by the connected L2 U2N Remote UE (as indicated in sl-RequestedPosSIB-List in the RemoteUEInformationSidelink) or upon receiving the updated posSIB(s) from network which have been requested by the connected L2 U2N Remote UE;
1>	upon unsolicited SIB1 forwarding to the connected L2 U2N Remote UE or upon receiving the updated SIB1 from network;
For each associated L2 U2N Remote UE, the L2 U2N Relay UE shall set the contents of UuMessageTransferSidelink message as follows:
1>	include sl-PagingDelivery if the Paging message received from network containing the ue-Identity of the L2 U2N Remote UE;
1>	include sl-SIB1-Delivery if any of the conditions for initiating Uu message transfer procedure related to SIB1 are met;
1>	include sl-SystemInformationDelivery if any of the conditions for initiating Uu message transfer procedure related to System Information are met;
1>	submit the UuMessageTransferSidelink message to lower layers for transmission.
NOTE:	The L2 U2N Relay UE may perform unsolicited forwarding of SIB1 to the L2 U2N Remote UE based on UE implementation. A L2 U2N Remote UE configured with MP does not apply the SIB1 received from the L2 U2N Relay UE on the indirect path, if any.
5.8.9.9.3	Reception of the UuMessageTransferSidelink
Upon receiving the UuMessageTransferSidelink message, the L2 U2N Remote UE shall:
1>	if sl-PagingDelivery is included:
2>	perform the paging reception procedure as specified in clause 5.3.2.3;
1>	if sl-SystemInformationDelivery and/or sl-SIB1-Delivery is included:
2>	perform the actions specified in clause 5.2.2.4.
5.8.9.10	Notification Message
5.8.9.10.1	General

Figure 5.8.9.8.1-1: Notification message in sidelink
This procedure is used by a U2N Relay UE to send notification to the connected U2N Remote UE, or used by a L2 U2U Relay UE to send notification to the L2 U2U Remote UE for an end-to-end PC5 connection when condition(s) as specified in 5.8.9.10.2 is met for the hop between the L2 U2U Relay UE and the peer L2 U2U Remote UE.
5.8.9.10.2	Initiation
The Relay UE may initiate the procedure when one of the following conditions is met:
1>	if the UE is acting as U2N Relay UE:
2>	upon Uu RLF as specified in 5.3.10;
2>	upon reception of an RRCReconfiguration including the reconfigurationWithSync;
2>	upon cell reselection;
2>	upon L2 U2N Relay UE's RRC connection failure including RRC connection reject as specified in 5.3.3.5 and 5.3.13.10, and T300 expiry as specified in 5.3.3.7, and RRC resume failure as specified in 5.3.13.5;
1>	if the UE is acting as L2 U2U Relay UE:
2>	upon detection of PC5 RLF for the hop between the L2 U2U Relay UE and L2 U2U Remote UE as specified in 5.8.9.3;
2>	upon PC5-RRC connection release for the per-hop link between the L2 U2U Relay UE and L2 U2U Remote UE as specified in 5.8.9.5;
5.8.9.10.3	Actions related to transmission of NotificationMessageSidelink message
The Relay UE shall set the indication type as follows:
1>	if the UE is acting as U2N Relay UE:
2>	if the UE initiates transmission of the NotificationMessageSidelink message due to Uu RLF:
3>	set the indicationType as relayUE-Uu-RLF;
2>	else if the UE initiates transmission of the NotificationMessageSidelink message due to reconfiguration with sync:
3>	set the indicationType as relayUE-HO;
2>	else if the UE initiates transmission of the NotificationMessageSidelink message due to cell reselection:
3>	set the indicationType as relayUE-CellReselection;
2>	if the UE initiates transmission of the NotificationMessageSidelink message due to Uu RRC connection establishment/Resume failure:
3>	set the indicationType as relayUE-Uu-RRC-Failure;
2>	submit the NotificationMessageSidelink message to lower layers for transmission.
1>	if the UE is acting as L2 U2U Relay UE:
2>	if the UE initiates transmission of the NotificationMessageSidelink message due to PC5 RLF with L2 U2U Remote UE; or
2>	if the UE initiates transmission of the NotificationMessageSidelink message due to PC5-RRC connection release for the per-hop link between the L2 U2U Relay UE and L2 U2U Remote UE:
3>	set the sl-IndicationType as relayUE-PC5-RLF;
3>	set the sl-DestinationIdentityRemoteUE as the associated destination for L2 U2U Remote UE;
3>	submit the NotificationMessageSidelink message to lower layers for transmission;
5.8.9.10.4	Actions related to reception of NotificationMessageSidelink message
Upon receiving the NotificationMessageSidelink, the Remote UE shall:
1>	if the UE is acting as U2N Remote UE:
2>	if the indicationType is included:
3>	if the UE is L2 U2N Remote UE in RRC_CONNECTED:
4>	if MP is configured and MCG transmission (i.e. direct path) is not suspended;
5>	if the indicationType is relayUE-HO;
6>	suspend indirect path transmission;
5>	else:
6>	initiate the indirect path failure information procedure as specified in 5.7.3c to report indirect path failure;
4>	else if T301 is not running, initiate the RRC connection re-establishment procedure as specified in 5.3.7;
3>	else (the UE is L3 U2N Remote UE, or L2 U2N Remote UE in RRC_IDLE or RRC_INACTIVE):
4>	if the PC5-RRC connection with the U2N Relay UE is determined to be released:
5>	indicate upper layers to trigger PC5 unicast link release;
4>	else (i.e., maintain the PC5 RRC connection):
5>	if the UE is L2 U2N Remote UE and the indicationType is relayUE-HO or relayUE-CellReselection:
6>	consider cell re-selection occurs;
NOTE 1:	For L3 U2N Remote UE, or L2 U2N Remote UE in RRC_IDLE or RRC_INACTIVE, it is up to Remote UE implementation whether to release or keep the PC5 unicast link.
NOTE 2:	The L2 U2N Remote UE may ignore the NotificationMessageSidelink if it does not release the PC5 unicast link in source side yet during an indirect-to-direct path switch, i.e. T304 is running.
1>	if the UE is acting as L2 U2U Remote UE:
2>	if sl-IndicationType is relayUE-PC5-RLF:
3>	indicate PC5 RLF received from L2 U2U Relay UE to the upper layers for the indicated L2 U2U Remote UE based on the received sl-DestinationIdentityRemoteUE;
3>	consider the end-to-end PC5 connection failure for the end-to-end PC5 connection(s) over the per-hop PC5 link between the L2 U2U Relay UE and the L2 U2U Remote UE identified by sl-DestinationIdentityRemoteUE;
3>	perform the end-to-end PC5 connection failure related actions as specified in 5.8.9.3a;
NOTE 3:	It is up to the upper layers on whether to trigger U2U Relay reselection and whether to keep or release the PC5 link with the U2U Relay UE after the PC5 RLF indication received from U2U Relay UE.
5.8.9.11	UE information transfer on sidelink
5.8.9.11.1	General

Figure 5.8.9.11.1-1: Sidelink UE information procedure
The purpose of this procedure is to transfer the UE information between a Remote UE and a Relay UE in sidelink. The L2 U2U Remote UE informs its end-to-end QoS information to its connected L2 U2U Relay UE in the UEInformationRequestSidelink message, and the L2 U2U Relay UE delivers the split QoS information of the first-hop to the Remote UE in the UEInformationResponseSidelink message.
5.8.9.11.2	Actions related to transmission of the UEInformationRequestSidelink by the UE
For initial information transfer (e.g. for QoS split) or upon change in any of the information in the UEInformationRequestSidelink, the UE shall set the contents of UEInformationRequestSidelink message as follows and include all concerned information, irrespective of trigger condition:
1>	if the UE is acting as L2 U2U Remote UE:
2>	set sl-E2E-QoS-InfoListPC5 to include the end-to-end QoS profile(s) of the sidelink QoS flow(s) towards the peer L2 U2U Remote UE if configured by the upper layer, and for each entry:
3>	set sl-DestinationIdentityRemoteUE to include the associated identity for peer L2 U2U Remote UE;
3>	set sl-E2E-SLRB-Index to include the associated end-to-end SLRB configuration index;
3>	set sl-QoS-InfoList to include the end-to-end QoS profile(s) of the sidelink QoS flow(s);
2>	submit the UEInformationRequestSidelink message to lower layers for transmission.
5.8.9.11.3	Actions related to reception of the UEInformationRequestSidelink by the UE
The UE shall perform the following actions upon reception of the UEInformationRequestSidelink:
1>	if the UE is acting as L2 U2U Relay UE:
2>	perform QoS split based on the sl-QoS-InfoList for each QoS flow to decide the split PDB value for each PC5 hop;
2>	set the contents of UEInformationResponseSidelink message as follows:
3>	set sl-SplitQoS-InfoListPC5 to include the split PDB value for each QoS flow on the first PC5 hop between L2 U2U Relay UE and L2 U2U Remote UE;
2>	submit the UEInformationResponseSidelink message to lower layers for transmission;
2>	for each sl-E2E-SLRB-Index value included in the sl-E2E-QoS-InfoListPC5:
3>	merge the split per-flow QoS on the second PC5 hop into a per-SLRB level QoS profile;
2>	if the UE is in RRC_IDLE or RRC_INACTIVE or out of coverage:
3>	derive the PC5 Relay RLC channel configuration on the second PC5 hop based on the per-SLRB level QoS profile of this end-to-end sidelink DRB, as specified in 5.8.9.7.0;
3>	(re)configure the SRAP entity to map the end-to-end DRB with PC5 Relay RLC channel, if needed;
2>	if the UE is in RRC_CONNECTED:
3>	initiate sidelink UE information procedure according to clause 5.8.3.2 to report per-SLRB level QoS.
NOTE 1:	It is left to Relay UE implementation on how to split the PDB.
NOTE 2:	For a L2 U2U Relay UE, how to merge the split per-flow QoS on the second PC5 hop into a per-SLRB level QoS profile is up to UE implementation.
5.8.9.11.4	Actions related to reception of the UEInformationResponseSidelink by the UE
The UE shall perform the following actions upon reception of the UEInformationResponseSidelink:
1>	if the UE is in RRC_CONNECTED:
2>	initiate sidelink UE information procedure according to clause 5.8.3.2 to report the split QoS profile for the first PC5 hop;
1>	else (UE in RRC_IDLE or RRC_INACTIVE or out of coverage):
2>	for each sl-E2E-SLRB-Index value included in the sl-E2E-QoS-InfoListPC5 in UEInformationRequestSidelink:
3>	merge the split per-flow QoS on the first PC5 hop into a per-SLRB level QoS profile;
3>	derive the PC5 Relay RLC channel configuration for the first PC5 hop based on the per-SLRB level QoS profile of this end-to-end sidelink DRB, as specifed in 5.8.9.7.0;
3>	(re)configure the SRAP entity to map the end-to-end DRB with PC5 Relay RLC channel, if needed.
NOTE:	For a L2 U2U Remote UE in RRC_IDLE or RRC_INACTIVE or out of coverage, how to merge the split per-flow QoS on the first PC5 hop into a per-SLRB level QoS profile is up to UE implementation.
5.8.10	Sidelink measurement
5.8.10.1	Introduction
The UE may configure the associated peer UE to perform NR sidelink measurement and report on the corresponding PC5-RRC connection in accordance with the NR sidelink measurement configuration for unicast by RRCReconfigurationSidelink message.
The NR sidelink measurement configuration includes the following parameters for a PC5-RRC connection:
1.	NR sidelink measurement objects: Object(s) on which the associated peer UE shall perform the NR sidelink measurements.
-	For NR sidelink measurement, a NR sidelink measurement object indicates the NR sidelink frequency of reference signals to be measured.
2.	NR sidelink reporting configurations: NR sidelink measurement reporting configuration(s) where there can be one or multiple NR sidelink reporting configurations per NR sidelink measurement object. Each NR sidelink reporting configuration consists of the following:
-	Reporting criterion: The criterion that triggers the UE to send a NR sidelink measurement report. This can either be periodical or a single event description.
-	RS type: The RS that the UE uses for NR sidelink measurement results. In this release, only DMRS is supported for NR sidelink measurement.
-	Reporting format: The quantities that the UE includes in the measurement report. In this release, only RSRP measurement is supported.
3.	NR sidelink measurement identities: A list of NR sidelink measurement identities where each NR sidelink measurement identity links one NR sidelink measurement object with one NR sidelink reporting configuration. By configuring multiple NR sidelink measurement identities, it is possible to link more than one NR sidelink measurement object to the same NR sidelink reporting configuration, as well as to link more than one NR sidelink reporting configuration to the same NR sidelink measurement object. The NR sidelink measurement identity is also included in the NR sidelink measurement report that triggered the reporting, serving as a reference to the network.
4.	NR sidelink quantity configurations: The NR sidelink quantity configuration defines the NR sidelink measurement filtering configuration used for all event evaluation and related reporting, and for periodical reporting of that NR sidelink measurement. In each configuration, different filter coefficients can be configured for different NR sidelink measurement quantities.
Both UEs of the PC5-RRC connection maintains a NR sidelink measurement object list, a NR sidelink reporting configuration list, and a NR sidelink measurement identities list according to signalling and procedures in this specification.
5.8.10.2	Sidelink measurement configuration
5.8.10.2.1	General
The UE shall:
1>	if the received sl-MeasConfig includes the sl-MeasObjectToRemoveList in the RRCReconfigurationSidelink:
2>	perform the sidelink measurement object removal procedure as specified in 5.8.10.2.4;
1>	if the received sl-MeasConfig includes the sl-MeasObjectToAddModList in the RRCReconfigurationSidelink:
2>	perform the sidelink measurement object addition/modification procedure as specified in 5.8.10.2.5;
1>	if the received sl-MeasConfig includes the sl-ReportConfigToRemoveList in the RRCReconfigurationSidelink:
2>	perform the sidelink reporting configuration removal procedure as specified in 5.8.10.2.6;
1>	if the received sl-MeasConfig includes the sl-ReportConfigToAddModList in the RRCReconfigurationSidelink:
2>	perform the sidelink reporting configuration addition/modification procedure as specified in 5.8.10.2.7;
1>	if the received sl-MeasConfig includes the sl-QuantityConfig in the RRCReconfigurationSidelink:
2>	perform the sidelink quantity configuration procedure as specified in 5.8.10.2.8;
1>	if the received sl-MeasConfig includes the sl-MeasIdToRemoveList in the RRCReconfigurationSidelink:
2>	perform the sidelink measurement identity removal procedure as specified in 5.8.10.2.2;
1>	if the received sl-MeasConfig includes the sl-MeasIdToAddModList in the RRCReconfigurationSidelink:
2>	perform the sidelink measurement identity addition/modification procedure as specified in 5.8.10.2.3;
5.8.10.2.2	Sidelink measurement identity removal
The UE shall:
1>	for each sl-MeasId included in the received sl-MeasIdToRemoveList that is part of the current UE configuration in VarMeasConfigSL:
2>	remove the entry with the matching sl-MeasId from the sl-MeasIdList within the VarMeasConfigSL;
2>	remove the NR sidelink measurement reporting entry for this sl-MeasId from the VarMeasReportListSL, if included;
2>	stop the periodical reporting timer and reset the associated information (e.g. sl-TimeToTrigger) for this sl-MeasId.
NOTE:	The UE does not consider the message as erroneous if the sl-MeasIdToRemoveList includes any sl-MeasId value that is not part of the current UE configuration.
5.8.10.2.3	Sidelink measurement identity addition/modification
The UE shall:
1>	for each sl-MeasId included in the received sl-MeasIdToAddModList:
2>	if an entry with the matching sl-MeasId exists in the sl-MeasIdList within the VarMeasConfigSL:
3>	replace the entry with the value received for this sl-MeasId;
2>	else:
3>	add a new entry for this sl-MeasId within the VarMeasConfigSL;
2>	remove the measurement reporting entry for this sl-MeasId from the VarMeasReportListSL, if included;
2>	stop the periodical reporting timer and reset the associated information (e.g. sl-TimeToTrigger) for this sl-MeasId;
5.8.10.2.4	Sidelink measurement object removal
The UE shall:
1>	for each sl-MeasObjectId included in the received sl-MeasObjectToRemoveList that is part of sl-MeasObjectList in VarMeasConfigSL:
2>	remove the entry with the matching sl-MeasObjectId from the sl-MeasObjectList within the VarMeasConfigSL;
2>	remove all sl-MeasId associated with this sl-MeasObjectId from the sl-MeasIdList within the VarMeasConfigSL, if any;
2>	if a sl-MeasId is removed from the sl-MeasIdList:
3>	remove the measurement reporting entry for this sl-MeasId from the VarMeasReportListSL, if included;
3>	stop the periodical reporting timer and reset the associated information (e.g. sl-TimeToTrigger) for this sl-MeasId.
NOTE:	The UE does not consider the message as erroneous if the sl-MeasObjectToRemoveList includes any sl-MeasObjectId value that is not part of the current UE configuration.
5.8.10.2.5	Sidelink measurement object addition/modification
The UE shall:
1>	for each sl-MeasObjectId included in the received sl-MeasObjectToAddModList:
2>	if an entry with the matching sl-MeasObjectId exists in the sl-MeasObjectList within the VarMeasConfigSL, for this entry:
3>	for each sl-MeasId associated with this sl-MeasObjectId included in the sl-MeasIdList within the VarMeasConfigSL, if any:
4>	remove the measurement reporting entry for this sl-MeasId from the VarMeasReportListSL, if included;
4>	stop the periodical reporting timer and reset the associated information (e.g. sl-TimeToTrigger) for this sl-MeasId;
3>	reconfigure the entry with the value received for this sl-MeasObject;
2>	else:
3>	add a new entry for the received sl-MeasObject to the sl-MeasObjectList within VarMeasConfigSL.
5.8.10.2.6	Sidelink reporting configuration removal
The UE shall:
1>	for each sl-ReportConfigId included in the received sl-ReportConfigToRemoveList that is part of the current UE configuration in VarMeasConfigSL:
2>	remove the entry with the matching sl-ReportConfigId from the sl-ReportConfigList within the VarMeasConfigSL;
2>	remove all sl-MeasId associated with the sl-ReportConfigId from the sl-MeasIdList within the VarMeasConfigSL, if any;
2>	if a sl-MeasId is removed from the sl-MeasIdList:
3>	remove the measurement reporting entry for this sl-MeasId from the VarMeasReportListSL, if included;
3>	stop the periodical reporting timer and reset the associated information (e.g. sl-TimeToTrigger) for this sl-MeasId.
NOTE:	The UE does not consider the message as erroneous if the sl-ReportConfigToRemoveList includes any sl-ReportConfigId value that is not part of the current UE configuration.
5.8.10.2.7	Sidelink reporting configuration addition/modification
The UE shall:
1>	for each sl-ReportConfigId included in the received sl-ReportConfigToAddModList:
2>	if an entry with the matching sl-ReportConfigId exists in the sl-ReportConfigList within the VarMeasConfigSL, for this entry:
3>	reconfigure the entry with the value received for this sl-ReportConfig;
3>	for each sl-MeasId associated with this sl-ReportConfigId included in the sl-MeasIdList within the VarMeasConfigSL, if any:
4>	remove the measurement reporting entry for this sl-MeasId from the VarMeasReportListSL, if included;
4>	stop the periodical reporting timer and reset the associated information (e.g. sl-TimeToTrigger) for this sl-MeasId;
2>	else:
3>	add a new entry for the received sl-ReportConfig to the sl-ReportConfigList within the VarMeasConfigSL.
5.8.10.2.8	Sidelink quantity configuration
The UE shall:
1>	for each received sl-QuantityConfig:
2>	set the corresponding parameter(s) in sl-QuantityConfig within VarMeasConfigSL to the value of the received sl-QuantityConfig parameter(s);
1>	for each sl-MeasId included in the sl-MeasIdList within VarMeasConfigSL:
2>	remove the measurement reporting entry for this sl-MeasId from the VarMeasReportListSL, if included;
2>	stop the periodical reporting timer and reset the associated information (e.g. sl-TimeToTrigger) for this sl-MeasId.
5.8.10.3	Performing NR sidelink measurements
5.8.10.3.1	General
A UE shall derive NR sidelink measurement results by measuring one or multiple DMRS associated per PC5-RRC connection as configured by the peer UE associated, as described in 5.8.10.3.2. For all NR sidelink measurement results the UE applies the layer 3 filtering as specified in clause 5.5.3.2, before using the measured results for evaluation of reporting criteria and measurement reporting. In this release, only NR sidelink RSRP can be configured as trigger quantity and reporting quantity.
The UE shall:
1>	for each sl-MeasId included in the sl-MeasIdList within VarMeasConfigSL:
2>	if the sl-MeasObject is associated to NR sidelink and the sl-RS-Type is set to dmrs:
3>	derive the layer 3 filtered NR sidelink measurement result based on PSSCH DMRS for the trigger quantity and each measurement quantity indicated in sl-ReportQuantity using parameters from the associated sl-MeasObject, as described in 5.8.10.3.2.
2>	perform the evaluation of reporting criteria as specified in 5.8.10.4.
5.8.10.3.2	Derivation of NR sidelink measurement results
The UE may be configured by the peer UE associated to derive NR sidelink RSRP measurement results per PC5-RRC connection associated to the NR sidelink measurement objects based on parameters configured in the sl-MeasObject and in the sl-ReportConfig.
The UE shall:
1>	for each NR sidelink measurement quantity to be derived based on NR sidelink DMRS/SL-PRS:
2>	derive the corresponding measurement of NR sidelink frequency indicated quantity based on PSSCH DMRS/SL-PRS as described in TS 38.215 [9] in the concerned sl-MeasObject;
2>	apply layer 3 filtering as described in 5.5.3.2;
5.8.10.4	Sidelink measurement report triggering
5.8.10.4.1	General
The UE shall:
1>	for each sl-MeasId included in the sl-MeasIdList within VarMeasConfigSL:
2>	if the sl-ReportType is set to sl-EventTriggered and if the entry condition applicable for this event, i.e. the event corresponding with the sl-EventId of the corresponding sl-ReportConfig within VarMeasConfigSL, is fulfilled for NR sidelink frequency for all NR sidelink measurements after layer 3 filtering taken during sl-TimeToTrigger defined for this event within the VarMeasConfigSL, while the VarMeasReportListSL does not include a NR sidelink measurement reporting entry for this sl-MeasId (a first NR sidelink frequency triggers the event):
3>	include a NR sidelink measurement reporting entry within the VarMeasReportListSL for this sl-MeasId;
3>	set the sl-NumberOfReportsSent defined within the VarMeasReportListSL for this sl-MeasId to 0;
3>	include the concerned NR sidelink frequency in the sl-FrequencyTriggeredList defined within the VarMeasReportListSL for this sl-MeasId;
3>	initiate the NR sidelink measurement reporting procedure, as specified in 5.8.10.5;
2>	else if the sl-ReportType is set to sl-EventTriggered and if the entry condition applicable for this event, i.e. the event corresponding with the sl-EventId of the corresponding sl-ReportConfig within VarMeasConfigSL, is fulfilled for NR sidelink frequency not included in the sl-FrequencyTriggeredList for all NR sidelink measurements after layer 3 filtering taken during sl-TimeToTrigger defined for this event within the VarMeasConfigSL (a subsequent NR sidelink frequency triggers the event):
3>	set the sl-NumberOfReportsSent defined within the VarMeasReportListSL for this sl-MeasId to 0;
3>	include the concerned NR sidelink frequency in the sl-FrequencyTriggeredList defined within the VarMeasReportListSL for this sl-MeasId;
3>	initiate the NR sidelink measurement reporting procedure, as specified in 5.8.10.5;
2>	else if the sl-ReportType is set to sl-EventTriggered and if the leaving condition applicable for this event is fulfilled for NR sidelink frequency included in the sl-FrequencyTriggeredList defined within the VarMeasReportListSL for this sl-MeasId for all NR sidelink measurements after layer 3 filtering taken during sl-TimeToTrigger defined within the VarMeasConfigSL for this event:
3>	remove the concerned NR sidelink frequency in the sl-FrequencyTriggeredList defined within the VarMeasReportListSL for this sl-MeasId;
3>	if sl-ReportOnLeave is set to true for the corresponding reporting configuration:
4>	initiate the NR sidelink measurement reporting procedure, as specified in 5.8.10.5;
3>	if the sl-FrequencyTriggeredList defined within the VarMeasReportListSL for this sl-MeasId is empty:
4>	remove the NR sidelink measurement reporting entry within the VarMeasReportListSL for this sl-MeasId;
4>	stop the periodical reporting timer for this sl-MeasId, if running;
2>	if sl-ReportType is set to sl-Periodical and if a (first) NR sidelink measurement result is available:
3>	include a NR sidelink measurement reporting entry within the VarMeasReportListSL for this sl-MeasId;
3>	set the sl-NumberOfReportsSent defined within the VarMeasReportListSL for this sl-MeasId to 0;
3>	initiate the NR sidelink measurement reporting procedure, as specified in 5.8.10.5, immediately after the quantity to be reported becomes available for the NR sidelink frequency:
2>	upon expiry of the periodical reporting timer for this sl-MeasId:
3>	initiate the NR sidelink measurement reporting procedure, as specified in 5.8.10.5.
5.8.10.4.2	Event S1 (Serving becomes better than threshold)
The UE shall:
1>	consider the entering condition for this event to be satisfied when condition S1-1, as specified below, is fulfilled;
1>	consider the leaving condition for this event to be satisfied when condition S1-2, as specified below, is fulfilled;
1>	for this NR sidelink measurement, consider the NR sidelink frequency corresponding to the associated sl-MeasObject associated with this event.
Inequality S1-1 (Entering condition)
Ms – Hys > Thresh
Inequality S1-2 (Leaving condition)
Ms + Hys < Thresh
The variables in the formula are defined as follows:
Ms is the NR sidelink measurement result of the NR sidelink frequency, not taking into account any offsets.
Hys is the hysteresis parameter for this event (i.e. sl-Hysteresis as defined within sl-ReportConfig for this event).
Thresh is the threshold parameter for this event (i.e. s1-Threshold as defined within sl-ReportConfig for this event).
Ms is expressed in dBm in case of RSRP.
Hys is expressed in dB.
Thresh is expressed in the same unit as Ms.
5.8.10.4.3	Event S2 (Serving becomes worse than threshold)
The UE shall:
1>	consider the entering condition for this event to be satisfied when condition S2-1, as specified below, is fulfilled;
1>	consider the leaving condition for this event to be satisfied when condition S2-2, as specified below, is fulfilled;
1>	for this NR sidelink measurement, consider the NR sidelink frequency indicated by the sl-MeasObject associated to this event.
Inequality S2-1 (Entering condition)
Ms + Hys < Thresh
Inequality S2-2 (Leaving condition)
Ms – Hys > Thresh
The variables in the formula are defined as follows:
Ms is the NR sidelink measurement result of the NR sidelink frequency, not taking into account any offsets.
Hys is the hysteresis parameter for this event (i.e. sl-Hysteresis as defined within sl-ReportConfig for this event).
Thresh is the threshold parameter for this event (i.e. s2-Threshold as defined within sl-ReportConfig for this event).
Ms is expressed in dBm in case of RSRP.
Hys is expressed in dB.
Thresh is expressed in the same unit as Ms.
5.8.10.5	Sidelink measurement reporting
5.8.10.5.1	General

Figure 5.8.10.5.1-1: NR sidelink measurement reporting
The purpose of this procedure is to transfer measurement results from the UE to the peer UE associated.
For the sl-MeasId for which the NR sidelink measurement reporting procedure was triggered, the UE shall set the sl-MeasResults within the MeasurementReportSidelink message as follows:
1>	set the sl-MeasId to the measurement identity that triggered the NR sidelink measurement reporting;
1>	if the sl-ReportConfig associated with the sl-MeasId that triggered the NR sidelink measurement reporting is set to sl-EventTriggered or sl-Periodical:
2>	if the sl-RS-Type within sl-ReportConfig is set to dmrs:
3>	set sl-ResultDMRS within sl-MeasResult to include the NR sidelink DMRS based quantity indicated in the sl-ReportQuantity within the concerned sl-ReportConfig;
2>	if the sl-RS-Type within sl-ReportConfig is set to sl-prs:
3>	set sl-Result-SL-PRS within sl-MeasResult to include the NR SL-PRS based quantity indicated in the sl-ReportQuantity within the concerned sl-ReportConfig;
1>	increment the sl-NumberOfReportsSent as defined within the VarMeasReportListSL for this sl-MeasId by 1;
1>	stop the periodical reporting timer, if running;
1>	if the sl-NumberOfReportsSent as defined within the VarMeasReportListSL for this sl-MeasId is less than the sl-ReportAmount as defined within the corresponding sl-ReportConfig for this sl-MeasId:
2>	start the periodical reporting timer with the value of sl-ReportInterval as defined within the corresponding sl-ReportConfig for this sl-MeasId;
1>	else:
2>	if the sl-ReportType is set to sl-Periodical:
3>	remove the entry within the VarMeasReportListSL for this sl-MeasId;
3>	remove this sl-MeasId from the sl-MeasIdList within VarMeasConfigSL;
1>	submit the MeasurementReportSidelink message to lower layers for transmission, upon which the procedure ends.
5.8.11	Zone identity calculation
The UE shall determine an identity of the zone (i.e. Zone_id) in which it is located using the following formulae, if sl-ZoneConfig is configured:
x1= Floor (x / L) Mod 64;
y1= Floor (y / L) Mod 64;
Zone_id = y1 * 64 + x1.
The parameters in the formulae are defined as follows:
L is the value of sl-ZoneLength included in sl-ZoneConfig;
x is the geodesic distance in longitude between UE's current location and geographical coordinates (0, 0) according to WGS84 model [58] and it is expressed in meters;
y is the geodesic distance in latitude between UE's current location and geographical coordinates (0, 0) according to WGS84 model [58] and it is expressed in meters.
NOTE:	How the calculated zone_id is used is specified in TS 38.321 [3].
5.8.12	DFN derivation from GNSS
When the UE selects GNSS as the synchronization reference source, the DFN, the subframe number within a frame and slot number within a frame used for NR sidelink communication/discovery are derived from the current UTC time, by the following formulae:
DFN= Floor (0.1*(Tcurrent –Tref–OffsetDFN)) mod 1024
SubframeNumber= Floor (Tcurrent –Tref–OffsetDFN) mod 10
SlotNumber= Floor ((Tcurrent –Tref–OffsetDFN)*2μ) mod (10*2μ)
Where:
Tcurrent is the current UTC time obtained from GNSS. This value is expressed in milliseconds;
Tref is the reference UTC time 00:00:00 on Gregorian calendar date 1 January, 1900 (midnight between Thursday, December 31, 1899 and Friday, January 1, 1900). This value is expressed in milliseconds;
OffsetDFN is the value sl-OffsetDFN if configured, otherwise it is zero. This value is expressed in milliseconds.
μ=0/1/2/3 corresponding to the 15/30/60/120 kHz of SCS for SL, respectively.
NOTE 1:	In case of leap second change event, how UE obtains the scheduled time of leap second change to adjust Tcurrent correspondingly is left to UE implementation. How UE handles to avoid the sudden discontinuity of DFN is left to UE implementation.
NOTE 2:	Void.
5.8.13	NR sidelink discovery
5.8.13.1	General
The purpose of this procedure is to perform NR sidelink discovery as specified in TS 23.304 [65].
5.8.13.2	NR sidelink discovery monitoring
A UE capable of NR sidelink discovery that is configured by upper layers to monitor NR sidelink discovery messages shall:
1>	if the frequency used for NR sidelink discovery is included in sl-FreqInfoToAddModList in RRCReconfiguration message and sl-DiscConfig is included in RRCReconfiguration; or if the frequency used for NR sidelink discovery is included in sl-FreqInfoList included in SIB12 and sl-DiscConfigCommon is included in SIB12:
2>	if the UE is configured with sl-DiscRxPool for NR sidelink discovery reception included in RRCReconfiguration message with reconfigurationWithSync (i.e. handover):
3>	configure lower layers to monitor sidelink control information and the corresponding data using the resource pool indicated by sl-DiscRxPool for NR sidelink discovery reception in RRCReconfiguration;
2>	else if the UE is configured with sl-RxPool for NR sidelink discovery reception included in RRCReconfiguration message with reconfigurationWithSync (i.e. handover):
3>	configure lower layers to monitor sidelink control information and the corresponding data using the resource pool indicated by sl-RxPool for NR sidelink discovery reception in RRCReconfiguration;
2>	else if the cell chosen for NR sidelink discovery reception provides SIB12:
3>	if sl-DiscRxPool for NR sidelink discovery reception is included in SIB12:
4>	configure lower layers to monitor sidelink control information and the corresponding data using the resource pool indicated by sl-DiscRxPool for NR sidelink discovery reception in SIB12;
3>	else if sl-RxPool for NR sidelink discovery reception is included in SIB12:
4>	configure lower layers to monitor sidelink control information and the corresponding data using the resource pool indicated by sl-RxPool for NR sidelink discovery reception in SIB12;
1>	else:
2>	if out of coverage on the concerned frequency for NR sidelink discovery:
3>	if sl-DiscRxPool was preconfigured:
4>	configure lower layers to monitor sidelink control information and the corresponding data using the resource pool that was preconfigured by sl-DiscRxPool for NR sidelink discovery reception in SL-PreconfigurationNR, as defined in clause 9.3;
3>	else:
4>	configure lower layers to monitor sidelink control information and the corresponding data using the resource pool that was preconfigured by sl-RxPool for NR sidelink discovery reception in SL-PreconfigurationNR, as defined in clause 9.3;
NOTE:	If sl-DiscRxPool and sl-RxPool are both included in SIB12 or preconfigured, it is up to UE implementation whether to monitor sidelink control information and the corresponding data using the resource pool indicated by sl-RxPool for NR sidelink discovery reception.
5.8.13.3	NR sidelink discovery transmission
A UE capable of NR sidelink discovery that is configured by upper layer to transmit NR sidelink discovery message shall:
1>	if the frequency used for NR sidelink discovery is included in sl-FreqInfoToAddModList in sl-ConfigDedicatedNR within RRCReconfiguration message; or if the frequency used for NR sidelink discovery is included in sl-FreqInfoList within SIB12:
2>	if the UE is in RRC_CONNECTED and uses the frequency included in sl-ConfigDedicatedNR within RRCReconfiguration message:
3>	if the UE is acting as NR sidelink U2N Relay UE and sl-DiscConfig is included in RRCReconfiguration, and if the NR sidelink U2N Relay UE threshold conditions as specified in 5.8.14.2 are met based on sl-RelayUE-Config; or
3>	if the UE is selecting NR sidelink U2N Relay UE / has a selected NR sidelink U2N Relay UE/ configured with measurement object associated to L2 U2N Relay UEs and sl-DiscConfig is included in RRCReconfiguration, and if the NR sidelink U2N Remote UE threshold conditions as specified in 5.8.15.2 are met based on sl-RemoteUE-Config; or
3>	if the UE is selecting NR sidelink U2U Relay UE / has a selected NR sidelink U2U Relay UE and sl-DiscConfig is included in RRCReconfiguration, and if the NR sidelink U2U Remote UE threshold conditions associated with the peer NR Sidelink U2U Remote UE as specified in 5.8.17.2 are met based on sl-RemoteUE-ConfigU2U; or
3>	if the UE acting as Target Remote UE is performing U2U Relay Discovery with Model B and sl-DiscConfig is included in RRCReconfiguration, and if the NR sidelink U2U Remote UE threshold conditions associated with the NR sidelink U2U Relay UE as specified in 5.8.17.2 are met based on sl-RemoteUE-ConfigU2U; or
3>	if the UE acting as U2U Relay UE is performing U2U Relay Discovery with Model A as specified in TS 23.304[65], and neighbour UEs in discovery message to be transmitted meet the threshold conditions as specified in 5.8.16.3; or
3> if the UE acting as U2U Relay UE is sending Discovery Response message with Model B as specified in TS 23.304[65]; or
3>	if the UE acting as U2U Relay UE is sending Discovery Solicitation message with Model B as specified in TS 23.304[65] and sl-DiscConfig is included in RRCReconfiguration, and if the NR sidelink U2U Relay UE threshold conditions as specified in 5.8.16.2 are met based on sl-RelayUE-ConfigU2U; or
NOTE 1:	For U2U Relay UE and Target Remote UE, it can be up to UE implementation on cross-layer interaction for the AS layer condition check for discovery message forwarding.
3>	if the UE is performing NR sidelink non-relay discovery:
4>	if the UE is configured with sl-ScheduledConfig:
5>	if T310 for MCG or T311 is running; and if sl-TxPoolExceptional is included in sl-FreqInfoList for the concerned frequency in SIB12 or included in sl-ConfigDedicatedNR in RRCReconfiguration; or
5>	if T301 is running and the cell on which the UE initiated RRC connection re-establishment provides SIB12 including sl-TxPoolExceptional for the concerned frequency; or
5>	if T304 for MCG is running and the UE is configured with sl-TxPoolExceptional included in sl-ConfigDedicatedNR for the concerned frequency in RRCReconfiguration:
6>	configure lower layers to perform the sidelink resource allocation mode 2 based on random selection using the resource pool indicated by sl-TxPoolExceptional as defined in TS 38.321 [3] for NR sidelink discovery transmission;
5>	else:
6>	configure lower layers to perform the sidelink resource allocation mode 1 using the resource pool indicated by sl-DiscTxPoolScheduling or sl-TxPoolScheduling for NR sidelink discovery transmission on the concerned frequency in RRCReconfiguration;
5>	if T311 is running, configure the lower layers to release the resources indicated by rrc-ConfiguredSidelinkGrant (if any);
4>	if the UE is configured with sl-UE-SelectedConfig:
5>	if the sl-DiscTxPoolSelected for NR sidelink discovery transmission on the concerned frequency is included in the sl-ConfigDedicatedNR within RRCReconfiguration, and if a result of full/partial sensing, if selected and is allowed by sl-AllowedResourceSelectionConfig, on the resources configured in sl-DiscTxPoolSelected for NR sidelink discovery transmission on the concerned frequency included in sl-ConfigDedicatedNR within RRCReconfiguration is not available in accordance with TS 38.214 [19]; or
5>	if the sl-DiscTxPoolSelected for NR sidelink discovery transmission on the concerned frequency is not included in the sl-ConfigDedicatedNR within RRCReconfiguration, and a result of full/partial sensing, if selected and is allowed by sl-AllowedResourceSelectionConfig, on the resources configured in sl-TxPoolSelectedNormal for NR sidelink discovery transmission on the concerned frequency included in sl-ConfigDedicatedNR within RRCReconfiguration is not available in accordance with TS 38.214 [19];
6>	if sl-TxPoolExceptional for the concerned frequency is included in RRCReconfiguration; or
6>	if the PCell provides SIB12 including sl-TxPoolExceptional in sl-FreqInfoList for the concerned frequency:
7>	configure lower layers to perform the sidelink resource allocation mode 2 based on random selection using the resource pool indicated by sl-TxPoolExceptional as defined in TS 38.321 [3] for NR sidelink discovery transmission;
5>	else, if the sl-DiscTxPoolSelected for NR sidelink discovery transmission on the concerned frequency is included in the sl-ConfigDedicatedNR within RRCReconfiguration:
6>	configure lower layers to perform the sidelink resource allocation mode 2 based on resource selection operation according to sl-AllowedResourceSelectionConfig (as defined in TS 38.321 [3] and TS 38.214 [19]) using the pools of resources indicated by sl-DiscTxPoolSelected for NR sidelink discovery transmission on the concerned frequency in RRCReconfiguration;
5>	else, if the sl-TxPoolSelectedNormal for NR sidelink discovery transmission on the concerned frequency is included in the sl-ConfigDedicatedNR within RRCReconfiguration:
6>	configure lower layers to perform the sidelink resource allocation mode 2 based on resource selection operation according to sl-AllowedResourceSelectionConfig (as defined in TS 38.321 [3] and TS 38.214 [19]) using the pools of resources indicated by sl-TxPoolSelectedNormal for NR sidelink discovery transmission on the concerned frequency in RRCReconfiguration;
2>	else if the cell chosen for NR sidelink discovery transmission provides SIB12:
3>	if the UE is acting as NR sidelink U2N Relay UE and sl-DiscConfigCommon is included in SIB12, and if the NR sidelink U2N Relay UE threshold conditions as specified in 5.8.14.2 are met based on sl-RelayUE-ConfigCommon in SIB12; or
3>	if the UE is selecting NR sidelink U2N Relay UE / has a selected NR sidelink U2N Relay UE and sl-DiscConfigCommon is included in SIB12, and if the NR sidelink U2N Remote UE threshold conditions as specified in 5.8.15.2 are met based on sl-RemoteUE-ConfigCommon in SIB12; or
3>	if the UE is selecting NR sidelink U2U Relay UE / has a selected NR sidelink U2U Relay UE and sl-DiscConfigCommon is included in SIB12, and if the NR sidelink U2U Remote UE threshold conditions associated with the peer NR Sidelink U2U Remote UE as specified in 5.8.17.2 are met based on sl-RemoteUE-ConfigCommonU2U in SIB12; or
3>	if the UE acting as Target Remote UE is performing U2U Relay Discovery with Model B and if the NR sidelink U2U Remote UE threshold conditions associated with the NR sidelink U2U Relay UE as specified in 5.8.17.2 are met based on sl-RemoteUE-ConfigCommonU2U in SIB12; or
3>	if the UE acting as U2U Relay UE is performing U2U Relay Discovery with Model A as specified in TS 23.304[65], and neighbor UEs in discovery message to be transmitted meet the threshold conditions as specified in 5.8.16.3; or
3> if the UE acting as U2U Relay UE is sending Discovery Response message with Model B as specified in TS 23.304[65]; or
3>	if the UE acting as U2U Relay UE is sending Discovery Solicitation message with Model B as specified in TS 23.304[65] and if the NR sidelink U2U Relay UE threshold conditions as specified in 5.8.16.2 are met based on sl-RelayUE-ConfigCommonU2U in SIB12; or
3>	if the UE is performing NR sidelink non-relay discovery:
4>	if SIB12 includes sl-DiscTxPoolSelected for NR sidelink discovery transmission on the concerned frequency, and a result of full/partial sensing, if selected and is allowed by sl-AllowedResourceSelectionConfig, on the resources configured in the sl-DiscTxPoolSelected for NR sidelink discovery transmission is available in accordance with TS 38.214 [19] or random selection, if allowed by sl-AllowedResourceSelectionConfig, is selected:
5>	configure lower layers to perform the sidelink resource allocation mode 2 based on resource selection operation according to sl-AllowedResourceSelectionConfig using the pools of resources indicated by sl-DiscTxPoolSelected for NR sidelink discovery transmission on the concerned frequency in SIB12 as defined in TS 38.321 [3];
4>	else if SIB12 includes sl-TxPoolSelectedNormal for NR sidelink discovery transmission on the concerned frequency, and a result of full/partial sensing, if selected and is allowed by sl-AllowedResourceSelectionConfig, on the resources configured in the sl-TxPoolSelectedNormal for NR sidelink discovery transmission is available in accordance with TS 38.214 [19] or random selection, if allowed by sl-AllowedResourceSelectionConfig, is selected:
5>	configure lower layers to perform the sidelink resource allocation mode 2 based on resource selection operation according to sl-AllowedResourceSelectionConfig using the pools of resources indicated by sl-TxPoolSelectedNormal for NR sidelink discovery transmission on the concerned frequency in SIB12 as defined in TS 38.321 [3];
4>	else if SIB12 includes sl-TxPoolExceptional for the concerned frequency:
5>	from the moment the UE initiates RRC connection establishment or RRC connection resume, until receiving an RRCReconfiguration including sl-ConfigDedicatedNR, or receiving an RRCRelease or an RRCReject; or
5>	if a result of full/partial sensing, if selected and is allowed by sl-AllowedResourceSelectionConfig, on the resources configured in sl-DiscTxPoolSelected for NR sidelink discovery transmission on the concerned frequency in SIB12 is not available in accordance with TS 38.214 [19]; or
5>	if sl-DiscTxPoolSelected for NR sidelink discovery transmission on the concerned frequency is not included in SIB12 and if a result of full/partial sensing, if selected and is allowed by sl-AllowedResourceSelectionConfig, on the resources configured in sl-TxPoolSelectedNormal for NR sidelink discovery transmission on the concerned frequency in SIB12 is not available in accordance with TS 38.214 [19]:
6>	configure lower layers to perform the sidelink resource allocation mode 2 based on random selection (as defined in TS 38.321 [3]) using one of the pools of resources indicated by sl-TxPoolExceptional for NR sidelink discovery transmission on the concerned frequency;
1>	else if out of coverage on the concerned frequency for NR sidelink discovery:
2>	if the UE is acting as L3 U2N Relay UE; or
2>	if the UE is selecting NR sidelink U2N Relay UE / has a selected NR sidelink U2N Relay UE and if the NR sidelink U2N Remote UE threshold conditions as specified in 5.8.15.2 are met based on sl-PreconfigDiscConfig in SidelinkPreconfigNR; or
2>	if the UE is selecting NR sidelink U2U Relay UE / has a selected NR sidelink U2U Relay UE and if the NR sidelink U2U Remote UE threshold conditions associated with the peer NR sidelink U2U Remote UE as specified in 5.8.17.2 are met based on sl-RemoteUE-PreconfigU2U in SidelinkPreconfigNR; or
2>	if the UE acting as Target Remote UE is performing U2U Relay Discovery with Model B and if the NR sidelink U2U Remote UE threshold conditions associated with the NR sidelink U2U Relay UE as specified in 5.8.17.2 are met based on sl-RemoteUE-PreconfigU2U in SidelinkPreconfigNR; or
2>	if the UE acting as U2U Relay UE is performing U2U Relay Discovery with Model A as specified in TS 23.304[65], and neighbor UEs in discovery message to be transmitted meet the threshold conditions as specified in 5.8.16.3; or
2>	if the UE acting as U2U Relay UE is sending Discovery Response message with Model B as specified in TS 23.304[65]; or
2>	if the UE acting as U2U Relay UE is sending Discovery Solicitation message with Model B as specified in TS 23.304[65] and if the NR sidelink U2U Relay UE threshold conditions as specified in 5.8.16.2 are met based on sl-RelayUE-PreconfigU2U in SidelinkPreconfigNR; or
2>	if the UE is performing NR sidelink non-relay discovery:
3>	configure lower layers to perform the sidelink resource allocation mode 2 based on resource selection operation according to sl-AllowedResourceSelectionConfig (as defined in TS 38.321 [3] and TS 38.214 [19]) using the pools of resources indicated in sl-DiscTxPoolSelected or sl-TxPoolSelectedNormal for NR sidelink discovery transmission on the concerned frequency in SidelinkPreconfigNR.
NOTE 2:	It is up to UE implementation to determine, in accordance with TS 38.321[3], which resource pool to use if multiple resource pools are configured, and which resource allocation scheme is used in the AS based on UE capability (for a UE in RRC_IDLE/RRC_INACTIVE) and the allowed resource schemes sl-AllowedResourceSelectionConfig in the resource pool configuration.
5.8.14	NR sidelink U2N Relay UE operation
5.8.14.1	General
This procedure is used by a UE supporting NR sidelink U2N Relay UE operation configured by upper layers to transmit NR sidelink discovery messages to evaluate AS layer conditions.
5.8.14.2	NR sidelink U2N Relay UE threshold conditions
A UE capable of NR sidelink U2N Relay UE operation shall:
1>	if the threshold conditions specified in this clause were previously not met:
2>	if threshHighRelay is not configured; or the RSRP measurement of the PCell, or the cell on which the UE camps, is below threshHighRelay by hystMaxRelay if configured; and
2>	if threshLowRelay is not configured; or the RSRP measurement of the PCell, or the cell on which the UE camps, is above threshLowRelay by hystMinRelay if configured:
3>	consider the threshold conditions to be met (entry);
1>	else:
2>	if the RSRP measurement of the PCell, or the cell on which the UE camps, is above threshHighRelay if configured; or
2>	if the RSRP measurement of the PCell, or the cell on which the UE camps, is below threshLowRelay if configured;
3>	consider the threshold conditions not to be met (leave);
5.8.15	NR sidelink U2N Remote UE operation
5.8.15.1	General
This procedure is used by a UE supporting NR sidelink U2N Remote UE operation configured by upper layers to transmit NR sidelink discovery message to evaluate AS layer conditions. The procedure is also used to perform selection and reselection of NR sidelink U2N Relay UE.
5.8.15.2	NR Sidelink U2N Remote UE threshold conditions
A UE capable of NR sidelink U2N Remote UE operation shall:
1>	if the threshold conditions specified in this clause were previously not met:
2>	if threshHighRemote is not configured; or the RSRP measurement of the PCell, or the cell on which the UE camps, is below threshHighRemote by hystMaxRemote if configured, or
2> if the UE has no serving cell:
3>	consider the threshold conditions to be met (entry);
1>	else:
2>	if the RSRP measurement of the PCell, or the cell on which the UE camps, is above threshHighRemote if configured:
3>	consider the threshold conditions not to be met (leave);
The L2 U2N Remote UE not configured with MP considers the cell indicated by sl-ServingCellInfo in the SL-AccessInfo-L2U2N-r17 received from the connected L2 U2N Relay UE as the PCell/camping cell.
5.8.15.3	Selection and reselection of NR sidelink U2N Relay UE
A UE capable of NR sidelink U2N Remote UE operation that is configured by upper layers to search for a NR sidelink U2N Relay UE shall:
1>	if the UE has no serving cell; or
1>	if the RSRP measurement of the cell on which the UE camps (for L2 and L3 U2N Remote UE in RRC_IDLE or RRC_INACTIVE)/ the PCell (for L3 U2N Remote UE in RRC_CONNECTED) is below threshHighRemote within sl-RemoteUE-ConfigCommon/sl-RemoteUE-Config:
2>	if the UE does not have a selected NR sidelink U2N Relay UE; or
2>	if the UE has a selected NR sidelink U2N Relay UE, and SL-RSRP of the currently selected NR sidelink U2N Relay UE is available and is below sl-RSRP-Thresh; or
2>	if the UE has a selected NR sidelink U2N Relay UE, and SL-RSRP of the currently selected NR sidelink U2N Relay UE is not available, and SD-RSRP of the currently selected U2N Relay UE is below sl-RSRP-Thresh; or
NOTE 1:	U2N Remote UE uses SL-RSRP measurements for relay reselection trigger evaluation when there is data transmission from U2N Relay UE to U2N Remote UE, and it is left to UE implementation whether to use SL-RSRP or SD-RSRP for relay reselection trigger evaluation in case of no data transmission from U2N Relay UE to U2N Remote UE. If SD-RSRP is used, the discovery procedure will be performed between the U2N Remote UE and the selected U2N Relay UE.
2>	if the UE has a selected NR sidelink U2N Relay UE, and upper layers indicate not to use the currently selected NR sidelink U2N Relay UE; or
2>	if the UE has a selected NR sidelink U2N Relay UE, and upper layers request the release of the PC5-RRC connection; or
2>	if the UE has a selected NR sidelink U2N Relay UE, and sidelink radio link failure is detected on the PC5-RRC connection with the current U2N Relay UE as specified in clause 5.8.9.3:
3>	perform NR sidelink discovery procedure as specified in clause 5.8.13 in order to search for candidate NR sidelink U2N Relay UEs:
4>	when evaluating the one or more detected NR sidelink U2N Relay UEs, apply layer 3 filtering as specified in 5.5.3.2 across measurements that concern the same U2N Relay UE ID and using the sl-FilterCoefficientRSRP in SIB12 (if in RRC_IDLE/INACTIVE), the sl-FilterCoefficientRSRP in sl-ConfigDedicatedNR (if in RRC_CONNECTED) or the sl-FilterCoefficientRSRP in SidelinkPreconfigNR (out of coverage), before using the SD-RSRP measurement results;
4>	consider a candidate NR sidelink U2N Relay UE for which SD-RSRP exceeds sl-RSRP-Thresh by sl-HystMin has met the AS criteria;
3>	if the UE detects any suitable NR sidelink U2N Relay UE(s):
4>	consider one of the available suitable NR sidelink U2N relay UE(s) can be selected;
NOTE 2:	A candidate NR sidelink U2N Relay UE which meets all AS layer criteria defined in 5.8.15.3 and higher layer criteria defined in TS 23.304 [65] can be regarded as suitable NR sidelink U2N Relay UE by the NR sidelink U2N Remote UE. If multiple suitable NR sidelink U2N Relay UEs are available, it is up to Remote UE implementation to choose one NR sidelink U2N Relay UE. The details of the interaction with upper layers are up to UE implementation.
NOTE 3:	For L2 U2N Remote UEs in RRC_IDLE/INACTIVE and L3 U2N Remote UEs, the cell (re)selection procedure and relay (re)selection procedure run independently. If both suitable cells and suitable NR sidelink U2N Relay UEs are available, it is up to NR sidelink U2N Remote UE implementation to select either a cell or a NR sidelink U2N Relay UE. Furthermore, L3 U2N Remote UE's selection on both cell and NR sidelink U2N Relay UE is also based on UE implementation.
3>	else:
4>	consider no NR sidelink U2N Relay UE to be selected.
When evaluating the currently selected NR sidelink U2N Relay UE, the U2N Remote UE should apply layer 3 filtering as specified in 5.5.3.2 using the sl-FilterCoefficientRSRP in SIB12 (if in RRC_IDLE/INACTIVE), the sl-FilterCoefficientRSRP in sl-ConfigDedicatedNR (if in RRC_CONNECTED) or the sl-FilterCoefficientRSRP in SidelinkPreconfigNR (out of coverage), before using the SL-RSRP or SD-RSRP measurement results.
5.8.16	NR sidelink U2U Relay UE operation
5.8.16.1	General
This procedure is used by a UE supporting NR sidelink U2U Relay UE operation configured by upper layers to forward NR sidelink integrated discovery messages or Model B Discovery messages to evaluate AS layer conditions. The procedure is also used to determine whether a NR sidelink UE is in proximity to NR sidelink U2U Relay UE in Model A Discovery messages.
5.8.16.2	NR sidelink U2U Relay UE threshold conditions
A UE capable of NR sidelink U2U Relay UE operation shall:
1>	if the threshold conditions for sending Direct Communication Request message with integrated Discovery specified in this clause were previously not met:
2>	if the sd-RSRP-ThreshDiscConfig is not configured, or if the SL-RSRP of the Direct Communication Request message with integrated Discovery received from the Source NR sidelink U2U Remote UE is available and is above sd-RSRP-ThreshDiscConfig if configured:
3>	consider the threshold conditions to be met (entry);
1>	else:
2>	if the SL-RSRP of the Direct Communication Request message with integrated Discovery received from the Source NR sidelink U2U Remote UE is available and is below sd-RSRP-ThreshDiscConfig by sd-hystMaxRelay if configured:
3>	consider the threshold conditions not to be met (leave);
1>	if the threshold conditions for sending Relay Discovery Solicitation message with Model B Discovery specified in this clause were previously not met:
2>	if the sd-RSRP-ThreshDiscConfig is not configured, or if the SD-RSRP of the Model B Discovery message received from the Source NR sidelink U2U Remote UE is available and is above sd-RSRP-ThreshDiscConfig if configured:
3>	consider the threshold conditions to be met (entry);
1>	else:
2>	if the SD-RSRP of the Model B Discovery message received from the Source NR sidelink U2U Remote UE is available and is below sd-RSRP-ThreshDiscConfig by sd-hystMaxRelay if configured:
3>	consider the threshold conditions not to be met (leave);
When evaluating the Source NR sidelink U2U Remote UE, the U2U Relay UE shall apply layer 3 filtering as specified in 5.5.3.2 using the sd-FilterCoefficientU2U in SL-RelayUE-ConfigU2U if provided, before using the SL-RSRP or SD-RSRP measurement results.
5.8.16.3	Neighbor UE(s) in proximity conditions
A UE capable of NR sidelink U2U Relay UE operation and is performing U2U Relay Discovery with Model A as specified in TS 23.304[65] shall:
1>	for each of potential neighbor UE(s):
2>	if the SL-RSRP of the UE is available and is above sl-RSRP-Thresh-DiscConfig if configured; or
2>	if the SD-RSRP of the UE is available and is above sd-RSRP-ThreshDiscConfig if configured:
3>	consider the UE as neighbor UE in discovery message to be transmitted as defined in TS 23.304 [65].
NOTE: The interaction with upper layers is left to UE implementation.
When evaluating the potential neighbor UE(s), the U2U Relay UE shall apply layer 3 filtering as specified in 5.5.3.2 using the sl-FilterCoefficientU2U or sd-FilterCoefficientU2U in SL-RelayUE-ConfigU2U if provided, before using the SL-RSRP or SD-RSRP measurement results respectively.
5.8.17	NR sidelink U2U Remote UE operation
5.8.17.1	General
This procedure is used by a UE supporting NR sidelink U2U Remote UE operation configured by upper layers to transmit NR sidelink discovery messages to evaluate AS layer conditions. The procedure is also used to perform selection and reselection of NR sidelink U2U Relay UE.
5.8.17.2	NR Sidelink U2U Remote UE threshold conditions
A UE capable of NR sidelink U2U Remote UE operation shall:
1>	if the threshold conditions for sending Relay Discovery Solicitation message with Model B or sending Direct Communication Request message with integrated Discovery specified in this clause were previously not met:
2>	if the SL-RSRP measurement of the peer NR sidelink U2U Remote UE is to be used, and if sl-RSRP-ThreshU2U is not configured, or the SL-RSRP measurement of the peer NR sidelink U2U Remote UE is below sl-RSRP-ThreshU2U by sl-HystMinU2U if configured; or
2>	if the SD-RSRP measurement of the peer NR sidelink U2U Remote UE is to be used, and if sd-RSRP-ThreshU2U is not configured, or the SD-RSRP measurement of the peer NR sidelink U2U Remote UE is below sd-RSRP-ThreshU2U by sd-HystMinU2U if configured; or
2>	if the peer NR sidelink U2U Remote UE is not reachable, i.e. SL-RSRP/SD-RSRP measurement of the peer sidelink U2U Remote UE is not available:
3>	consider the threshold conditions to be met (entry);
1>	else:
2>	if the SL-RSRP measurement of the peer NR sidelink U2U Remote UE is available and is above sl-RSRP-ThreshU2U if configured; or
2>	if the SD-RSRP measurement of the peer NR sidelink U2U Remote UE is available and is above sd-RSRP-ThreshU2U if configured:
3>	consider the threshold conditions not to be met (leave);
1>	if the threshold conditions for sending Relay Discovery Response message with Model B specified in this clause were previously not met:
2>	if the sd-RSRP-ThreshU2U is not configured, or if the SD-RSRP of the NR sidelink U2U Relay UE is available and is above sd-RSRP-ThreshU2U if configured:
3>	consider the threshold conditions to be met (entry);
1>	else:
2>	if the SD-RSRP of the NR sidelink U2U Relay UE is available and is below sd-RSRP-ThreshU2U by sd-HystMinU2U if configured:
3>	consider the threshold conditions not to be met (leave);
When evaluating the peer NR sidelink U2U Remote UE, the U2U Remote UE shall apply layer 3 filtering as specified in 5.5.3.2 using the sl-FilterCoefficientU2U or sd-FilterCoefficientU2U in SL-RemoteUE-ConfigU2U if provided, before using the SL-RSRP or SD-RSRP measurement results respectively.
5.8.17.3	Conditions for selection and reselection of NR sidelink U2U Relay UE
A UE capable of NR sidelink U2U Remote UE operation initiates NR sidelink U2U Relay (re)selection procedure as specified in 5.8.17.4 when one of the following conditions is met:
1>	if the UE does not have a selected NR sidelink U2U Relay UE:
2>	if configured by upper layers to search for or select a NR sidelink U2U Relay UE; or
2>	if sl-RSRP-ThreshU2U is not configured, or if the SL-RSRP measurement of the peer NR sidelink U2U Remote UE is available and is below sl-RSRP-ThreshU2U by sl-HystMinU2U if configured; or
2>	if sd-RSRP-ThreshU2U is not configured, or if the SD-RSRP measurement of the peer NR sidelink U2U Remote UE is available and is below sd-RSRP-ThreshU2U by sd-HystMinU2U if configured;
1>	else if the UE has a selected NR sidelink U2U Relay UE:
2>	if the SL-RSRP of the currently selected NR sidelink U2U Relay UE is available and is below sl-RSRP-ThreshU2U by sl-HystMinU2U within sl-RemoteUE-ConfigU2U if configured; or
2>	if the SD-RSRP of the currently selected NR sidelink U2U Relay UE is available, and is below sd-RSRP-ThreshU2U by sd-HystMinU2U within sl-RemoteUE-ConfigU2U if configured; or
NOTE:	For relay selection, U2U Remote UE uses SL-RSRP measurements for relay selection trigger evaluation when there is data transmission from peer U2U Remote UE to U2U Remote UE. For relay reselection, U2U Remote UE uses SL-RSRP measurements for relay reselection trigger evaluation when there is data transmission from U2U Relay UE to U2U Remote UE. And in both cases, it is left to UE implementation whether to use SL-RSRP or SD-RSRP for relay (re)selection trigger evaluation in case of no data transmission.
2>	if the upper layers indicate to (re)select another NR sidelink U2U Relay UE; or
2>	if the sidelink radio link failure is detected on the PC5-RRC connection with the current NR sidelink U2U Relay UE as specified in clause 5.8.9.3.
When evaluating the currently selected NR sidelink U2U Relay UE, the U2U Remote UE shall apply layer 3 filtering as specified in 5.5.3.2 using the sl-FilterCoefficientU2U or sd-FilterCoefficientU2U in SL-RemoteUE-ConfigU2U if provided, before using the SL-RSRP or SD-RSRP measurement results respectively.
5.8.17.4	Actions related to selection and reselection of NR sidelink U2U Relay UE
Upon initiation of the NR sidelink U2U Relay (re)selection procedure, the UE shall:
1>	perform NR sidelink discovery procedure as specified in clause 5.8.13 or U2U Relay Communication with integrated Discovery as specified in clause 5.8.8, in order to search for candidate NR sidelink U2U Relay UEs:
2>	if the UE is performing NR sidelink discovery procedure as specified in clause 5.8.13:
3>	when evaluating the one or more detected NR sidelink U2U Relay UEs, apply layer 3 filtering as specified in 5.5.3.2 across measurements that concern the same U2U Relay UE ID and using the sd-FilterCoefficientU2U in SIB12 (if in RRC_IDLE/INACTIVE), the sd-FilterCoefficientU2U in sl-ConfigDedicatedNR (if in RRC_CONNECTED) or the preconfigured sd-FilterCoefficientU2U as defined in 9.3 (out of coverage), before using the SD-RSRP measurement results;
3>	consider a candidate NR sidelink U2U Relay UE for which SD-RSRP exceeds sd-RSRP-ThreshU2U has met the AS criteria;
2>	if the UE is performing U2U Relay Communication with integrated Discovery as specified in TS 23.304 [65] and has received Direct Communication Request message(s) from one or multiple NR sidelink U2U Relay UEs:
3>	when evaluating the NR sidelink U2U Relay UE(s), apply layer 3 filtering as specified in 5.5.3.2 across measurements that concern the same U2U Relay UE ID and using the sd-FilterCoefficientU2U in SIB12 (if in RRC_IDLE/INACTIVE), the sd-FilterCoefficientU2U in sl-ConfigDedicatedNR (if in RRC_CONNECTED) or the preconfigured sd-FilterCoefficientU2U as defined in 9.3 (out of coverage), before using the SL-RSRP measurement results;
3>	consider a candidate NR sidelink U2U Relay UE for which SL-RSRP exceeds sd-RSRP-ThreshU2U has met the AS criteria;
1>	if the UE detects any suitable NR sidelink U2U Relay UE(s):
2>	consider one of the available suitable NR sidelink U2U Relay UE(s) can be selected;
1>	else:
2>	consider no NR sidelink U2U Relay UE to be selected.
NOTE:	A candidate NR sidelink U2U Relay UE which meets all AS layer criteria defined in 5.8.17.4 and higher layer criteria defined in TS 23.304 [65] can be regarded as suitable NR sidelink U2U Relay UE by the NR sidelink U2U Remote UE. If multiple suitable NR sidelink U2U Relay UEs are available, it is up to Remote UE implementation to choose one NR sidelink U2U Relay UE. The details of the interaction with upper layers are up to UE implementation.
5.8.18	NR sidelink positioning
5.8.18.1	General
The purpose of this procedure is to perform NR sidelink positioning as specified in TS 38.305 [73].
5.8.18.2	NR sidelink positioning measurement
A UE capable of NR sidelink positioning that is configured by upper layers for performing SL-PRS measurement:
1>	if the conditions for NR sidelink positioning operation as defined in 5.8.2 are met:
2>	if the frequency used for NR sidelink positioning is included in sl-FreqInfoToAddModList/sl-FreqInfoToAddModListExt in RRCReconfiguration message or sl-FreqInfoList/sl-FreqInfoListSizeExt included in SIB12 and/or sl-PosFreqInfoList included in SIB23:
3>	if the UE is configured with sl-RxPool and/or sl-PRS-RxPool included in RRCReconfiguration message with reconfigurationWithSync (i.e. handover):
4>	configure lower layers to monitor sidelink control information and the corresponding SL-PRS using the pool(s) of resources indicated by sl-RxPool and/or sl-PRS-RxPool;
3>	else if the cell chosen for NR sidelink positioning provides SIB12 and/or SIB23:
4>	configure lower layers to monitor sidelink control information and the corresponding SL-PRS using the pool(s) of resources indicated by sl-RxPool in SIB12 and/or sl-PRS-RxPool in SIB23;
2>	else:
3>	configure lower layers to monitor sidelink control information and the corresponding SL-PRS using the pool(s) of resources that were preconfigured by sl-RxPool and/or sl-PRS-RxPool in SL-PreconfigurationNR, as defined in clause 9.3.
5.8.18.3	NR sidelink positioning transmission
A UE capable of NR sidelink positioning that is configured by upper layers to transmit SL-PRS shall:
1>	if the conditions for NR sidelink positioning operation as defined in 5.8.2 are met:
2>	if the frequency used for NR sidelink positioning is included in sl-FreqInfoToAddModList/sl-FreqInfoToAddModListExt in sl-ConfigDedicatedNR within RRCReconfiguration message or included in sl-PosConfigCommonNR within SIB23 or included in sl-ConfigCommonNR or sl-FreqInfoListSizeExt within SIB12:
3>	if the UE is in RRC_CONNECTED and uses the frequency included in sl-ConfigDedicatedNR within RRCReconfiguration message:
4>	if the UE is configured with sl-ScheduledConfig:
5>	if T310 for MCG or T311 is running; and if sl-PRS-TxPoolExceptional or sl-TxPoolExceptional is included in sl-PosFreqInfoList or sl-FreqInfoList/sl-FreqInfoListSizeExt for the concerned frequency in SIB23 or SIB12 or included in sl-ConfigDedicatedNR in RRCReconfiguration; or
5>	if T301 is running and the cell on which the UE initiated RRC connection re-establishment provides SIB23 or SIB12 including sl-PRS-TxPoolExceptional or sl-TxPoolExceptional for the concerned frequency; or
5>	if T304 for MCG is running and the UE is configured with sl-PRS-TxPoolExceptional or sl-TxPoolExceptional included in sl-ConfigDedicatedNR for the concerned frequency in RRCReconfiguration:
6>	configure lower layers to perform the sidelink resource allocation scheme 2 based on random selection using the resource pool indicated by sl-PRS-TxPoolExceptional or sl-TxPoolExceptional as defined in TS 38.321 [3];
5>	else:
6>	configure lower layers to perform the sidelink resource allocation scheme 1 for NR sidelink positioning;
5>	if T311 is running, configure the lower layers to release the resources indicated by rrc-ConfiguredSidelinkGrant (if any);
4>	if the UE is configured with sl-UE-SelectedConfig:
5>	if a result of full sensing, if selected and is allowed by sl-PosAllowedResourceSelectionConfig, on the resources configured in sl-PRS-TxPoolSelectedNormal or by sl-AllowedResourceSelectionConfig, on the resources configured in sl-TxPoolSelectedNormal for the concerned frequency included in sl-ConfigDedicatedNR within RRCReconfiguration is not available in accordance with TS 38.214 [19];
6>	if sl-TxPoolExceptional or sl-PRS-TxPoolExceptional for the concerned frequency is included in RRCReconfiguration; or
6>	if the PCell provides SIB12 and/or SIB23 including sl-TxPoolExceptional or sl-PRS-TxPoolExceptional in sl-FreqInfoList/sl-FreqInfoListSizeExt or sl-PosFreqInfoList for the concerned frequency:
7>	configure lower layers to perform the sidelink resource allocation scheme 2 based on random selection using the pool of resources indicated by sl-TxPoolExceptional or sl-PRS-TxPoolExceptional as defined in TS 38.321 [3];
5>	else, if the sl-PRS-TxPoolSelectedNormal or sl-TxPoolSelectedNormal for the concerned frequency is included in the sl-ConfigDedicatedNR within RRCReconfiguration:
6>	configure lower layers to perform the sidelink resource allocation scheme 2 based on resource selection operation according to sl-PosAllowedResourceSelectionConfig (as defined in TS 38.321 [3] and TS 38.214 [19]) using the pools of resources indicated by sl-PRS-TxPoolSelectedNormal for the concerned frequency, or based on resource selection operation according to sl-AllowedResourceSelectionConfig (as defined in TS 38.321 [3] and TS 38.214 [19]) using the pools of resources indicated by sl-TxPoolSelectedNormal for the concerned frequency;
3>	else:
4>	if the cell chosen for NR sidelink positioning transmission provides SIB23 or SIB12:
5>	if SIB23 includes sl-PRS-TxPoolSelectedNormal for the concerned frequency, and a result of full sensing, if selected and is allowed by sl-PosAllowedResourceSelectionConfig, on the resources configured in the sl-PRS-TxPoolSelectedNormal is available in accordance with TS 38.214 [19] or random selection, if allowed by sl-PosAllowedResourceSelectionConfig, is selected:
6>	configure lower layers to perform the sidelink resource allocation scheme 2 based on resource selection operation according to sl-PosAllowedResourceSelectionConfig using the pools of resources indicated by sl-PosTxPoolSelectedNormal for the concerned frequency as defined in TS 38.321 [3];
5>	if SIB12 includes sl-TxPoolSelectedNormal for the concerned frequency, and a result of full sensing, if selected and is allowed by sl-AllowedResourceSelectionConfig, on the resources configured in the sl-TxPoolSelectedNormal is available in accordance with TS 38.214 [19] or random selection, if allowed by sl-AllowedResourceSelectionConfig, is selected:
6>	configure lower layers to perform the sidelink resource allocation scheme 2 based on resource selection operation according to sl-AllowedResourceSelectionConfig using the pools of resources indicated by sl-TxPoolSelectedNormal for the concerned frequency as defined in TS 38.321 [3];
5>	else if SIB23 includes sl-PRS-TxPoolExceptional or SIB12 includes sl-TxPoolExceptional for the concerned frequency:
6>	from the moment the UE initiates RRC connection establishment or RRC connection resume, until receiving an RRCReconfiguration including sl-ConfigDedicatedNR, or receiving an RRCRelease or an RRCReject; or
6>	if a result of full sensing, if selected and is allowed by sl-PosAllowedResourceSelectionConfig, on the resources configured in sl-PRS-TxPoolSelectedNormal or if selected and is allowed by sl-AllowedResourceSelectionConfig, on the resources configured in sl-TxPoolSelectedNormal for the concerned frequency in SIB12 and/or SIB23 is not available in accordance with TS 38.214 [19]:
7>	configure lower layers to perform the sidelink resource allocation scheme 2 based on random selection (as defined in TS 38.321 [3]) using the pool of resources indicated by sl-PRS-TxPoolExceptional or sl-TxPoolExceptional for the concerned frequency;
2>	else:
3>	configure lower layers to perform the sidelink resource allocation scheme 2 based on resource selection operation according to sl-PosAllowedResourceSelectionConfig or sl-AllowedResourceSelectionConfig (as defined in TS 38.321 [3] and TS 38.214 [19]) using the pools of resources indicated by sl-PRS-TxPoolSelectedNormal or sl-TxPoolSelectedNormal in SL-PreconfigurationNR for the concerned frequency.
NOTE:	Void.
NOTE 1:	The UE continues to use resources configured in rrc-ConfiguredSidelinkGrant (while T310 is running) until it is released (i.e. until T310 has expired). The UE does not use sidelink configured grant type 2 resources while T310 is running.
NOTE 2:	In case of RRC reconfiguration with sync, the UE uses resources configured in rrc-ConfiguredSidelinkGrant (while T304 on the MCG is running) if provided by the target cell.
NOTE 3:	It is up to UE implementation to determine, in accordance with TS 38.321[3], which resource pool to use if multiple resource pools are configured, and which resource allocation scheme is used in the AS based on UE capability (for a UE in RRC_IDLE/RRC_INACTIVE) and the allowed resource schemes sl-PosAllowedResourceSelectionConfig or sl-AllowedResourceSelectionConfig in the resource pool configuration.
5.9	MBS Broadcast
5.9.1	Introduction
5.9.1.1	General
UE receiving or interested to receive MBS broadcast service(s) applies MBS broadcast procedures described in this clause as well as the MBS Interest Indication procedure as specified in clause 5.9.4. The UE may acquire MBS broadcast only if the UE can acquire it without disrupting unicast, SDT or MBS multicast data reception.
MBS broadcast configuration information, except CFR configuration for MCCH/MTCH, is provided on MCCH logical channel. MCCH carries the MBSBroadcastConfiguration message which indicates the MBS broadcast sessions that are provided in the cell as well as the corresponding scheduling related information for these sessions. Optionally, the MBSBroadcastConfiguration message may also contain a list of neighbour cells providing the same broadcast MBS service(s) as provided in the current cell. The configuration information required by the UE to receive MCCH is provided in SIB1 and SIB20. Additionally, System Information may provide information related to service continuity of MBS broadcast in SIB21.
5.9.1.2	MCCH scheduling
The MCCH information (i.e. information transmitted in messages sent over MCCH) is transmitted periodically, using a configurable repetition period and within a configured transmission window. MCCH transmissions (and the associated radio resources and MCS) are indicated via the PDCCH addressed to MCCH-RNTI. PDCCH monitoring occasion(s) for MCCH transmission are determined according to the common search space indicated by searchspaceMCCH. If searchspaceMCCH is set to zero, PDCCH monitoring occasions for MCCH message reception in the MCCH transmission window are the same as PDCCH monitoring occasions for SIB1 where the mapping between PDCCH monitoring occasions and SSBs is specified in TS 38.213[13]. If searchspaceMCCH is not set to zero, PDCCH monitoring occasions for MCCH message are determined based on search space indicated by searchspaceMCCH. PDCCH monitoring occasions for MCCH message which are not overlapping with UL symbols (determined according to tdd-UL-DL-ConfigurationCommon) are sequentially numbered from one in the MCCH transmission window. The [x×N+K]th PDCCH monitoring occasion for MCCH message in MCCH transmission window corresponds to the Kth transmitted SSB, where x = 0, 1, ...X-1, K = 1, 2, …N, N is the number of actual transmitted SSBs determined according to ssb-PositionsInBurst in SIB1 and X is equal to CEIL(number of PDCCH monitoring occasions in MCCH transmission window/N). The actual transmitted SSBs are sequentially numbered from one in ascending order of their SSB indexes. The UE assumes that, in the MCCH transmission window, PDCCH for an MCCH message is transmitted in at least one PDCCH monitoring occasion corresponding to each transmitted SSB and thus the selection of SSB for the reception MCCH messages is up to UE implementation.
5.9.1.3	MCCH information validity and notification of changes
Change of MCCH information only occurs at specific radio frames, i.e. the concept of a modification period is used. Within a modification period, the same MCCH information may be transmitted a number of times, as defined by its scheduling (which is based on a repetition period).
When the network changes (some of) the MCCH information, it notifies the UEs about the change starting from the beginning of the MCCH modification period via PDCCH which schedules the MCCH in every repetition in that modification period.
Upon receiving a change notification, a UE receiving or interested to receive MBS services transmitted using MBS broadcast acquires the new MCCH information starting from the same slot. The UE applies the previously acquired MCCH information until the UE acquires the new MCCH information. The notification is transmitted with a 2-bit bitmap, see TS 38.212 [17] clause 7.3.1.5.1. The MSB in the 2-bit bitmap, when set to '1', indicates the start of new MBS service(s). The LSB in the 2-bit bitmap, when set to '1', indicates modification of MCCH information other than the change caused by start of new MBS service(s), e.g. modification of a configuration of an on-going MBS session(s), MBS session(s) stop or neighbouring cell information modification.
5.9.2	MCCH information acquisition
5.9.2.1	General

Figure 5.9.2.1-1: MCCH information acquisition
The UE applies the MCCH information acquisition procedure to acquire the MBS broadcast configuration information broadcasted by the network. The procedure applies to MBS capable UEs interested to receive or that are receiving MBS broadcast services that are in RRC_IDLE, RRC_INACTIVE or RRC_CONNECTED with an active BWP with common search space configured by searchSpaceMCCH.
5.9.2.2	Initiation
A UE shall apply the MCCH information acquisition procedure upon becoming interested to receive MBS broadcast services. A UE interested to receive MBS broadcast services shall apply the MCCH information acquisition procedure upon entering the cell providing SIB20 (e.g. upon power on, following UE mobility), upon receiving SIB20 of an SCell via dedicated signalling and upon receiving a notification that the MCCH information has changed due to the start of new MBS service(s). A UE that is receiving data via broadcast MRB shall apply the MCCH information acquisition procedure upon receiving a notification that the MCCH information has changed due to MCCH information modification other than the change caused by the start of new MBS service(s).
NOTE 1:	It is up to UE implementation how to address a possibility of the UE missing an MCCH change notification.
NOTE 2:	It is up to UE implementation to use the cell/tracking area list in the USD to avoid acquiring the MCCH when the UE is outside the MBS service area of the MBS broadcast service.
Unless explicitly stated otherwise in the procedural specification, the MCCH information acquisition procedure overwrites any stored MCCH information, i.e. delta configuration is not applicable for MCCH information and the UE discontinues using a field if it is absent in MCCH information.
5.9.2.3	MCCH information acquisition by the UE
An MBS capable UE interested to receive or receiving an MBS broadcast service shall:
1>	if the procedure is triggered by an MCCH information change notification:
2>	start acquiring the MBSBroadcastConfiguration message on MCCH in the concerned cell from the slot in which the change notification was received;
1>	if the UE enters a cell providing SIB20; or
1>	if the UE receives sCellSIB20:
2>	acquire the MBSBroadcastConfiguration message on MCCH in the concerned cell at the next repetition period.
5.9.2.4	Actions upon reception of the MBSBroadcastConfiguration message
No UE requirements related to the contents of the MBSBroadcastConfiguration message apply other than those specified elsewhere e.g. within the corresponding field descriptions.
5.9.3	Broadcast MRB configuration
5.9.3.1	General
The broadcast MRB configuration procedure is used by the UE to configure PDCP, RLC, MAC and the physical layer upon starting and/or stopping to receive a broadcast MRB transmitted on MTCH, or upon modification of a configuration of a broadcast MRB received by the UE. The procedure applies to MBS capable UEs that are interested to receive or that are receiving an MBS broadcast service that are in RRC_IDLE, RRC_INACTIVE or RRC_CONNECTED with an active BWP with common search space configured by searchSpaceMTCH or searchSpaceMCCH.
NOTE:	How to perform a modification of a broadcast MRB which is already configured in the UE is left to UE implementation.
5.9.3.2	Initiation
The UE applies the broadcast MRB establishment procedure to start receiving an MBS session of an MBS broadcast service it is interested in. The procedure may be initiated e.g. upon start of the MBS session, upon entering a cell providing an MBS broadcast service the UE is interested in, upon becoming interested in the ongoing MBS broadcast service, upon removal of the UE capability limitations inhibiting reception of the ongoing MBS broadcast service UE is interested in.
The UE applies the broadcast MRB release procedure to stop receiving a session of an MBS broadcast service. The procedure may be initiated e.g. upon stop of the MBS session, upon leaving the cell broadcasting the MBS service the UE is interested in, upon losing interest in the MBS service, when capability limitations start inhibiting reception of the concerned service.
5.9.3.3	Broadcast MRB establishment
Upon a broadcast MRB establishment, the UE shall:
1>	establish a PDCP entity and an RLC entity in accordance with MRB-InfoBroadcast for this broadcast MRB included in the MBSBroadcastConfiguration message and the configuration specified in 9.1.1.7;
1>	configure the MAC layer in accordance with the mtch-SchedulingInfo (if included);
1>	configure the physical layer in accordance with the mbs-SessionInfoList, searchSpaceMTCH, and pdsch-ConfigMTCH, applicable for the broadcast MRB;
1>	if an SDAP entity with the received mbs-SessionId does not exist:
2>	establish an SDAP entity as specified in TS 37.324 [24] clause 5.1.1;
2>	indicate the establishment of the user plane resources for the mbs-SessionId to upper layers;
1>	receive DL-SCH on the cell where the MBSBroadcastConfiguration message was received for the established broadcast MRB using g-RNTI and mtch-SchedulingInfo (if included) in this message for this MBS broadcast service.
5.9.3.4	Broadcast MRB release
Upon broadcast MRB release for MBS broadcast service, the UE shall:
1>	release the PDCP entity, RLC entity as well as the related MAC and physical layer configuration;
1>	if the SDAP entity associated with the corresponding mbs-SessionId has no associated MRB:
2>	release the SDAP entity, as specified in TS 37.324 [24] clause 5.1.2;
2>	indicate the release of the user plane resources for the mbs-SessionId to upper layers.
5.9.4	MBS Interest Indication
5.9.4.1	General

Figure 5.9.4.1-1: MBS Interest Indication
The purpose of this procedure is to inform the network that the UE in RRC_CONNECTED is receiving or is interested to receive MBS broadcast service(s) and/or to inform the network about the priority of MBS broadcast versus unicast and multicast MRB reception. MBS Interest Indication can only be sent after AS security activation.
5.9.4.2	Initiation
An MBS capable UE in RRC_CONNECTED may initiate the procedure in several cases including upon successful connection establishment/resume, upon entering or leaving the broadcast service area, upon MBS broadcast session start or stop, upon change of interest, upon change of priority between MBS broadcast reception and unicast/multicast reception, upon change to a PCell providing SIB21 (i.e. where the SIB1 scheduling information contains SIB21), upon receiving SIB20 of an SCell via dedicated signalling, upon handover, and upon RRC connection re-establishment, upon change to a PCell providing nonServingCellMII in SIB1, upon starting or stopping reception of MBS broadcast service on a non-serving cell, upon change of CFR information or subcarrier spacing for MBS broadcast reception on a non-serving cell. If the UE does not have the CFR information and subcarrier spacing for MBS broadcast reception on a non-serving cell at the time it sends the MBS Interest Indication, the UE sends another MBS Interest Indication after it has acquired this information from the non-serving cell.
Upon initiating the procedure, the UE shall:
1>	if SIB21 is provided by the PCell; or
1>	if nonServingCellMII is provided in SIB1 by the PCell:
2>	ensure having a valid version of SIB21 for the PCell, if present;
2>	if the UE did not transmit MBS Interest Indication since last entering RRC_CONNECTED state; or
2>	if SIB21 is provided and since the last time the UE transmitted an MBS Interest Indication to a PCell providing SIB21, the UE connected to a PCell, not providing SIB21; or
2> if nonServingCellMII is provided in SIB1 and since the last time the UE transmitted an MBS Interest Indication to a PCell providing nonServingCellMII in SIB1, the UE connected to a PCell not providing nonServingCellMII in SIB1:
3>	if the set of MBS broadcast frequencies of interest, determined in accordance with 5.9.4.3, is not empty:
4>	set the contents of MBS Interest Indication according to 5.9.4.5 and initiate transmission of the MBSInterestIndication message;
2>	else:
3>	if the set of MBS broadcast frequencies of interest, determined in accordance with 5.9.4.3, is different from mbs-FreqList included in the last transmission of the MBS Interest Indication; or
3>	if the set of MBS broadcast frequencies of interest for MBS broadcast reception on non-serving cell, determined in accordance with 5.9.4.3, is different from freqInfoMBS included in the last transmission of the MBS Interest Indication; or
3>	if any of the subcarrier spacing and the CFR information for MBS broadcast reception on non-serving cell has changed since the last transmission of the MBS Interest Indication; or
3>	if the subcarrier spacing and the CFR information for MBS broadcast reception on non-serving cell have been acquired from the non-serving cell which were not reported in the previous MBS Interest Indication; or
3>	if the prioritisation of reception of all indicated MBS broadcast frequencies compared to reception of any of the established unicast bearers and multicast MRBs has changed since the last transmission of the MBS Interest Indication:
4>	set the contents of MBS Interest Indication according to 5.9.4.5 and initiate transmission of the MBSInterestIndication message;
NOTE:	The UE may send MBS Interest Indication even when it is able to receive the MBS services it is interested in, i.e. to avoid that the network allocates a configuration inhibiting MBS broadcast reception.
3>	else if SIB20 is provided for the PCell or for the SCell:
4>	if since the last time the UE transmitted the MBS Interest Indication, the UE connected to a PCell not providing SIB20 and the UE was not provided with SIB20 for an SCell; or
4>	if the set of MBS broadcast services of interest determined in accordance with 5.9.4.4 is different from mbs-ServiceList included in the last transmission of the MBS Interest Indication:
5>	set the contents of MBS Interest Indication according to 5.9.4.5 and initiate the transmission of MBSInterestIndication message.
5.9.4.3	MBS frequencies of interest determination
The UE shall:
1>	consider a frequency to be part of the MBS frequencies of interest if the following conditions are met:
2>	at least one MBS session the UE is receiving or interested to receive via a broadcast MRB is ongoing or about to start; and
NOTE 1:	The UE may determine whether the session is ongoing or about to start from the start and stop time indicated in the User Service Description (USD), see TS 38.300 [2] or TS 23.247 [67].
2>	for at least one of these MBS sessions, SIB21 acquired from the PCell or a non-serving cell includes mapping between the concerned frequency and one or more MBS FSAIs indicated in the USD for this session, or for at least one of these MBS sessions, the concerned frequency is not included in SIB21 but is indicated in the USD for this session; and
NOTE 2:	The UE considers a frequency to be part of the MBS frequencies of interest even though NG-RAN may (temporarily) not employ a broadcast MRB for the concerned session, i.e., the UE does not verify if the session is indicated on MCCH.
2>	the supportedBandCombinationList the UE included in UE-NR-Capability contains at least one band combination including the concerned MBS frequency.
NOTE 3:	When evaluating which frequencies the UE is capable of receiving, the UE does not take into account whether they are currently configured as serving frequencies.
5.9.4.4	MBS services of interest determination
The UE shall:
1>	consider an MBS service to be part of the MBS services of interest if the following conditions are met:
2>	the UE is receiving or interested to receive this service via a broadcast MRB; and
2>	the session of this service is ongoing or about to start; and
2>	one or more MBS FSAIs in the USD for this service is included in SIB21 acquired from the PCell for a frequency belonging to the set of MBS frequencies of interest, determined according to 5.9.4.3 or SIB21 acquired from the PCell does not provide the frequency mapping for the concerned service but that frequency is included in the USD for this service.
NOTE:	The UE may determine whether the session is ongoing or about to start from the start and stop time indicated in the User Service Description (USD), see TS 38.300 [2] or TS 23.247 [67].
5.9.4.5	Setting of the contents of MBS Interest Indication
The UE shall set the contents of the MBS Interest Indication as follows:
1>	if the UE has a valid version of SIB21 for the PCell; and
1>	if the set of MBS frequencies of interest, determined in accordance with 5.9.4.3, is not empty:
2>	include mbs-FreqList and set it to include the MBS frequencies of interest sorted by decreasing order of interest, using the absoluteFrequencySSB for serving frequency, if applicable, and the ARFCN-ValueNR(s) as included in SIB21 or in USD (for neighbouring frequencies);
2>	include mbs-Priority if the UE prioritises reception of all indicated MBS frequencies above reception of any of the unicast bearers and multicast MRBs;
NOTE 1:	If the UE prioritises MBS broadcast reception and unicast/multicast data cannot be supported because of congestion on the MBS carrier(s), NG-RAN may for example initiate release of unicast bearers/multicast MRBs.
2>	if SIB20 is provided for the PCell or for the SCell:
3>	include mbs-ServiceList and set it to indicate the set of MBS services of interest sorted by decreasing order of interest determined in accordance with 5.9.4.4;
NOTE 2:	The mbs-ServiceList is not required to be used by the NG-RAN to determine the frequency on which to enable MBS broadcast reception for the UE.
1>	if nonServingCellMII is provided in SIB1 by the PCell; and
1>	if the set of MBS frequencies for MBS broadcast reception on non-serving cell, determined in accordance with 5.9.4.3, is not empty:
2>	include freqInfoMBS;
2>	if the UE has acquired cfr-InfoMBS and subcarrierSpacing for MBS broadcast reception on the non-serving cell:
3>	include cfr-InfoMBS and subcarrierSpacing.
5.10	MBS multicast reception in RRC_INACTIVE
5.10.1	Introduction
5.10.1.1	General
A UE configured to receive MBS multicast service(s) in RRC_INACTIVE that the UE has joined applies MBS multicast procedures described in this clause.
The multicast MCCH information (i.e., the MBSMulticastConfiguration message) is provided in RRCRelease and on multicast MCCH logical channel.
When there is temporarily no data for an active multicast session or when the multicast session is deactivated, the network notifies the UE to stop monitoring the corresponding G-RNTI via the MBSMulticastConfiguration message. If the UE is notified to stop monitoring the G-RNTI(s) for all the joined multicast sessions, it stops monitoring the Multicast MCCH-RNTI for the cell where it received the notification.
Multicast MCCH carries the MBSMulticastConfiguration message which indicates the MBS multicast sessions that are provided in the cell as well as the corresponding scheduling related information for these sessions. Optionally, the MBSMulticastConfiguration message may also contain a list of neighbour cells providing the same MBS multicast service(s) for reception in RRC_INACTIVE as provided in the current cell. The configuration information required by the UE to receive multicast MCCH is provided in SIB24.
5.10.1.2	Multicast MCCH scheduling
The multicast MCCH information (if sent on multicast MCCH logical channel) is transmitted periodically, using a configurable repetition period and within a configured transmission window. The multicast MCCH transmissions (and the associated radio resources and MCS) are indicated via the PDCCH addressed to Multicast MCCH-RNTI. PDCCH monitoring occasion(s) for the multicast MCCH transmission are determined according to the common search space indicated by searchSpaceMulticastMCCH. If searchSpaceMulticastMCCH is set to zero, PDCCH monitoring occasions for the multicast MCCH message reception in the multicast MCCH transmission window are the same as PDCCH monitoring occasions for SIB1 where the mapping between PDCCH monitoring occasions and SSBs is specified in TS 38.213 [13]. If searchSpaceMulticastMCCH is not set to zero, PDCCH monitoring occasions for the multicast MCCH message are determined based on search space indicated by searchSpaceMulticastMCCH. PDCCH monitoring occasions for the multicast MCCH message which are not overlapping with UL symbols (determined according to tdd-UL-DL-ConfigurationCommon) are sequentially numbered from one in the multicast MCCH transmission window. The [x×N+K]th PDCCH monitoring occasion for the multicast MCCH message in the multicast MCCH transmission window corresponds to the Kth transmitted SSB, where x = 0, 1, ...X-1, K = 1, 2, …N, N is the number of actual transmitted SSBs determined according to ssb-PositionsInBurst in SIB1 and X is equal to CEIL(number of PDCCH monitoring occasions in multicast MCCH transmission window/N). The actual transmitted SSBs are sequentially numbered from one in ascending order of their SSB indexes. The UE assumes that, in the multicast MCCH transmission window, PDCCH for a multicast MCCH message is transmitted in at least one PDCCH monitoring occasion corresponding to each transmitted SSB and thus the selection of SSB for the reception of multicast MCCH messages is up to UE implementation.
5.10.1.3	Multicast MCCH information validity and notification of changes
Change of multicast MCCH information only occurs at specific radio frames, i.e. the concept of a modification period is used. Within a modification period, the same multicast MCCH information may be transmitted a number of times, as defined by its scheduling (which is based on a repetition period).
When the network changes (some of) the multicast MCCH information, it notifies the UEs about the change starting from the beginning of the multicast MCCH modification period via PDCCH which schedules the multicast MCCH in every repetition in that modification period.
Upon receiving a change notification, a UE receiving MBS multicast service(s) in RRC_INACTIVE acquires the new multicast MCCH information starting from the same slot. The UE applies the previously acquired multicast MCCH information until the UE acquires the new multicast MCCH information. The notification is transmitted with a 2-bit bitmap, see TS 38.212 [17] clause 7.3.1.5.1. The MSB in the 2-bit bitmap is reserved. The LSB in the 2-bit bitmap, when set to '1', indicates modification of multicast MCCH information, e.g. modification of a configuration of an on-going MBS multicast session, stop of G-RNTI monitoring for the corresponding multicast session or neighbouring cell information modification.
5.10.2	Multicast MCCH information acquisition
5.10.2.1	General

Figure 5.10.2.1-1: Multicast MCCH information acquisition
The UE applies the multicast MCCH information acquisition procedure to acquire the MBSMulticastConfiguration message from the network. The procedure applies to UEs configured to receive MBS multicast services in RRC_INACTIVE.
5.10.2.2	Initiation
If configured to receive MBS multicast services in RRC_INACTIVE, a UE applies the multicast MCCH information acquisition procedure for PTM configuration update and upon selection to a new cell (i.e., different from the cell where the UE was configured to receive multicast in RRC_CONNECTED) providing SIB24 or reselection to a cell providing SIB24 (except in case the UE is aware that the multicast sessions that the UE has joined are not available for RRC_INACTIVE in the new cell) and may apply the multicast MCCH information acquisition procedure upon receiving GroupPaging in the paging message. A UE that is receiving MBS multicast data in RRC_INACTIVE shall apply the multicast MCCH information acquisition procedure upon receiving a notification that the multicast MCCH information has changed.
NOTE:	It is up to UE implementation how to address a possibility of the UE missing a multicast MCCH change notification.
Unless explicitly stated otherwise in the procedural specification, the multicast MCCH information acquisition procedure overwrites any stored multicast MCCH information as specified in 5.10.1.1, i.e. delta configuration is not applicable for multicast MCCH information and the UE discontinues using a field if it is absent in multicast MCCH information.
5.10.2.3	Multicast MCCH information acquisition by the UE
A UE configured to receive an MBS multicast service in RRC_INACTIVE shall:
1>	if the procedure is triggered by a multicast MCCH information change notification:
2>	start acquiring the MBSMulticastConfiguration message on multicast MCCH in the concerned cell from the slot in which the change notification was received;
1>	if the UE selects a new cell (i.e., different from the cell where the UE was configured to receive multicast in RRC_CONNECTED) providing SIB24 or reselects a cell providing SIB24; or
1>	if the procedure is triggered by the reception of GroupPaging in the paging message in 5.3.2.3; or
1>	if the UE receives RRCRelease configuring the UE to receive MBS multicast in RRC_INACTIVE which does not include PTM configuration for at least one multicast session for which the UE is not indicated to stop monitoring the G-RNTI:
2>	acquire the MBSMulticastConfiguration message on multicast MCCH in the concerned cell at the next repetition period.
5.10.2.4	Actions upon reception of the MBSMulticastConfiguration message
No UE requirements related to the contents of the MBSMulticastConfiguration message apply other than those specified elsewhere, e.g., within the corresponding field descriptions.
5.10.3	MRB configuration
5.10.3.1	General
The multicast MRB configuration procedure is used by the UE in RRC_INACTIVE state to configure PDCP, RLC, MAC entities and the physical layer upon PTM configuration update and moving to a cell providing SIB24. The UE may perform multicast MRB modification or release/establishment when PTM configuration is updated via multicast MCCH or when it moves to a cell where the PDCP COUNT of the corresponding multicast MRB is not synchronized within the RNA. The UE may perform multicast MRB modification when it moves to a cell where the PDCP COUNT of the corresponding multicast MRB is synchronized within the RNA. The UE resets MAC upon cell selection or reselection.
NOTE:	How to perform modification of a multicast MRB which is already configured in the UE is left to UE implementation.
Upon moving to a cell where the PDCP COUNT of a multicast MRB is not synchronized, an indication is sent to the lower layer to inform the PDCP COUNT non-synchronization of the corresponding multicast MRB. Upon transition from RRC_CONNECTED to RRC_INACTIVE in the same cell, the UE can continue using the multicast MRBs used in RRC_CONNECTED and in this case, the same LCIDs are used for the same multicast MRBs. Upon transition from RRC_INACTIVE to RRC_CONNECTED, the UE releases the MRBs configured in RRCRelease or multicast MCCH and performs delta configuration based on the stored MRB configuration from RRC_CONNECTED, if not indicated to perform full configuration.
5.10.3.2	Multicast MRB establishment
Upon establishment of a multicast MRB, the UE shall:
1>	establish a PDCP entity and an RLC entity in accordance with mrb-ListMulticast for this multicast MRB included in the MBSMulticastConfiguration message;
1>	configure the MAC layer in accordance with the mtch-SchedulingInfo (if included);
1>	configure the physical layer in accordance with the mbs-SessionInfoListMulticast, searchSpaceMulticastMTCH, and pdsch-ConfigMTCH, applicable for the multicast MRB;
1>	if an SDAP entity with the received mbs-SessionId does not exist:
2>	establish an SDAP entity as specified in TS 37.324 [24] clause 5.1.1;
2>	indicate the establishment of the user plane resources for the mbs-SessionId to upper layers;
1>	receive DL-SCH for the established multicast MRB using g-RNTI (if not indicated to stop monitoring this G-RNTI) and mtch-SchedulingInfo (if included) in this message for this MBS multicast service.
5.10.3.3	Multicast MRB release
Upon release of a multicast MRB, the UE shall:
1>	release the PDCP entity, RLC entity as well as the related MAC and physical layer configuration;
1>	if the SDAP entity associated with the corresponding mbs-SessionId has no associated MRB:
2>	release the SDAP entity, as specified in TS 37.324 [24] clause 5.1.2;
2>	indicate the release of the user plane resources for the mbs-SessionId to upper layers.
6	Protocol data units, formats and parameters (ASN.1)
6.1	General
6.1.1	Introduction
The contents of each RRC message is specified in clause 6.2 using ASN.1 to specify the message syntax and using tables when needed to provide further detailed information about the fields specified in the message syntax. The syntax of the information elements that are defined as stand-alone abstract types is further specified in a similar manner in clause 6.3.
Usage of the text "Network always configures the UE with a value for this field" in the field description indicates that the network has to provide a value for the field in this or in a previous message based on delta configuration (for an optional field with Need M). It does not imply a mandatory presence of the field.
6.1.2	Need codes and conditions for optional fields
The need for fields to be present in a message or an abstract type, i.e., the ASN.1 fields that are specified as OPTIONAL in the abstract notation (ASN.1), is specified by means of comment text tags attached to the OPTIONAL statement in the abstract syntax. All comment text tags are available for use in the downlink direction for RRC message and in the sidelink for PC5 RRC message. The meaning of each tag is specified in table 6.1.2-1.
If conditions are used, a conditional presence table is provided for the message or information element specifying the need of the field for each condition case. The table also specifies whether UE maintains or releases the value in case the field is absent. The conditions clarify what the UE may expect regarding the setting of the message by the network for the RRC message or by the peer UE in the sidelink RRC message. Violation of conditions is regarded as invalid network behaviour when transmitting downlink RRC message or invalid UE behavior when transmitting PC5 RRC message, which the UE is not required to cope with. Hence the general error handling defined in 10.4 does not apply in case a field is absent although it is mandatory according to the CondC or CondM condition.
For guidelines on the use of need codes and conditions, see Annex A.6 and A.7.
Table 6.1.2-1: Meaning of abbreviations used to specify the need for fields to be present

NOTE:	In this version of the specification, the condition tags CondC and CondM are not used.
Any field with Need M or Need N in system information shall be interpreted as Need R.
The need code used within a CondX definition only applies for the case (part of the condition) where it is defined: A condition may have different need codes for different parts of the condition. In particular, the CondX definition may contain the following "otherwise the field is absent" parts:
-	"Otherwise, the field is absent": The field is not relevant or should not be configured when this part of the condition applies. In particular, the UE behaviour is not defined when the field is configured via another part of the condition and is reconfigured to this part of the condition. A need code is not provided when the transition from another part of the condition to this part of the condition is not supported, when the field clearly is a one-shot or there is no difference whether UE maintains or releases the value (e.g., in case the field is mandatory present according to the other part of the condition).
-	"Otherwise, the field is absent, Need R": The field is released if absent when this part of the condition applies. This handles UE behaviour in case the field is configured via another part of the condition and this part of the condition applies (which means that network when transmitting downlink RRC message or peer UE transmitting PC5 RRC message can assume UE releases the field if this part of the condition is valid).
-	"Otherwise, the field is absent, Need M": The UE retains the field if it was already configured when this part of the condition applies. This means the network when transmitting downlink RRC message or the peer UE when transmitting PC5 RRC message cannot release the field, but UE retains the previously configured value.
Use of different Need codes in different parts of a condition should be avoided.
For downlink RRC message and sidelink PC5 RRC messages, the need codes, conditions and ASN.1 defaults specified for a particular (child) field only apply in case the (parent) field including the particular field is present. Thus, if the parent is absent the UE shall not release the field unless the absence of the parent field implies that.
For (parent) fields without need codes in downlink RRC messages or sidelink PC5 RRC message, if the parent field is absent, UE shall follow the need codes of the child fields. Thus, if parent field is absent, the need code of each child field is followed (i.e. Need R child fields are released, Need M child fields are not modified and the actions for Need S child fields depend on the specified conditions of each field). Examples of (parent) fields in downlink RRC messages and sidelink PC5 RRC message without need codes where this rule applies are:
-	nonCriticalExtension fields at the end of a message using empty SEQUENCE extension mechanism,
-	groups of non-critical extensions using double brackets (referred to as extension groups), and
-	non-critical extensions at the end of a message or at the end of a structure, contained in a BIT STRING or OCTET STRING (referred to as parent extension fields).
The handling of need codes as specified in the previous is illustrated by means of an example, as shown in the following ASN.1.
-- /example/ ASN1START

RRCMessage-IEs ::=                SEQUENCE {
    field1                            InformationElement1            OPTIONAL,  -- Need M
    field2                            InformationElement2            OPTIONAL,  -- Need R
    nonCriticalExtension              RRCMessage-v1570-IEs           OPTIONAL
}

RRCMessage-1570-IEs ::=           SEQUENCE {
    field3                            InformationElement3            OPTIONAL,  -- Need M
    nonCriticalExtension              RRCMessage-v1640-IEs           OPTIONAL
}

RRCMessage-v1640-IEs ::=          SEQUENCE {
    field4                            InformationElement4            OPTIONAL,  -- Need R
    nonCriticalExtension              SEQUENCE {}                    OPTIONAL
}

InformationElement1 ::=           SEQUENCE {
    field10                           InformationElement10           OPTIONAL,  -- Need N
    field11                           InformationElement11           OPTIONAL,  -- Need M
    field12                           InformationElement12           OPTIONAL,  -- Need R
    ...,
    [[
    field13                           InformationElement13           OPTIONAL,  -- Need R
    field14                           InformationElement14           OPTIONAL   -- Need M
    ]]
}

InformationElement2 ::=           SEQUENCE {
    field21                           InformationElement11           OPTIONAL,  -- Need M
    ...
}

-- ASN1STOP

The handling of need codes as specified in the previous implies that:
-	if field1 in RRCMessage-IEs is absent, UE does not modify or take action on any child fields configured within field1 (regardless of their need codes);
-	if field2 in RRCMessage-IEs is absent, UE releases the field2 (and also its child field field21);
-	if field1 or field2 in RRCMessage-IEs is present, UE retains or releases their child fields according to the child field presence conditions;
-	if field1 in RRCMessage-IEs is present but the extension group containing field13 and field14 is absent, the UE releases field13 but does not modify field14;
-	if nonCriticalExtension defined by IE RRCMessage-v1570-IEs is absent, the UE does not modify field3 but releases field4;
6.1.3	General rules
In the ASN.1 of this specification, the first bit of a bit string refers to the leftmost bit, unless stated otherwise.
Upon reception of a list not using ToAddModList and ToReleaseList structure, the UE shall delete all entries of the list currently in the UE configuration before applying the received list and shall consider each entry as newly created. This applies also to lists whose size is extended (i.e. with a second list structure in the ASN.1 comprising additional entries), unless otherwise specified. This implies that Need M should not be used for fields in the entries of these lists; if used, UE will handle such fields equivalent to a Need R.
6.2	RRC messages
6.2.1	General message structure
–	NR-RRC-Definitions
This ASN.1 segment is the start of the NR RRC PDU definitions.
-- ASN1START
-- TAG-NR-RRC-DEFINITIONS-START

NR-RRC-Definitions DEFINITIONS AUTOMATIC TAGS ::=

BEGIN

-- TAG-NR-RRC-DEFINITIONS-STOP
-- ASN1STOP

–	BCCH-BCH-Message
The BCCH-BCH-Message class is the set of RRC messages that may be sent from the network to the UE via BCH on the BCCH logical channel.
-- ASN1START
-- TAG-BCCH-BCH-MESSAGE-START

BCCH-BCH-Message ::=            SEQUENCE {
    message                         BCCH-BCH-MessageType
}

BCCH-BCH-MessageType ::=        CHOICE {
    mib                             MIB,
    messageClassExtension           SEQUENCE {}
}

-- TAG-BCCH-BCH-MESSAGE-STOP
-- ASN1STOP

–	BCCH-DL-SCH-Message
The BCCH-DL-SCH-Message class is the set of RRC messages that may be sent from the network to the UE via DL-SCH on the BCCH logical channel.
-- ASN1START
-- TAG-BCCH-DL-SCH-MESSAGE-START

BCCH-DL-SCH-Message ::=         SEQUENCE {
    message                         BCCH-DL-SCH-MessageType
}

BCCH-DL-SCH-MessageType ::=     CHOICE {
    c1                              CHOICE {
        systemInformation               SystemInformation,
        systemInformationBlockType1     SIB1
    },
    messageClassExtension           SEQUENCE {}
}

-- TAG-BCCH-DL-SCH-MESSAGE-STOP
-- ASN1STOP

–	DL-CCCH-Message
The DL-CCCH-Message class is the set of RRC messages that may be sent from the Network to the UE on the downlink CCCH logical channel.
-- ASN1START
-- TAG-DL-CCCH-MESSAGE-START

DL-CCCH-Message ::=             SEQUENCE {
    message                         DL-CCCH-MessageType
}

DL-CCCH-MessageType ::=         CHOICE {
    c1                              CHOICE {
        rrcReject                       RRCReject,
        rrcSetup                        RRCSetup,
        spare2                          NULL,
        spare1                          NULL
    },
    messageClassExtension           SEQUENCE {}
}

-- TAG-DL-CCCH-MESSAGE-STOP
-- ASN1STOP

–	DL-DCCH-Message
The DL-DCCH-Message class is the set of RRC messages that may be sent from the network to the UE on the downlink DCCH logical channel.
-- ASN1START
-- TAG-DL-DCCH-MESSAGE-START

DL-DCCH-Message ::=                  SEQUENCE {
    message                             DL-DCCH-MessageType
}

DL-DCCH-MessageType ::=             CHOICE {
    c1                                  CHOICE {
        rrcReconfiguration                  RRCReconfiguration,
        rrcResume                           RRCResume,
        rrcRelease                          RRCRelease,
        rrcReestablishment                  RRCReestablishment,
        securityModeCommand                 SecurityModeCommand,
        dlInformationTransfer               DLInformationTransfer,
        ueCapabilityEnquiry                 UECapabilityEnquiry,
        counterCheck                        CounterCheck,
        mobilityFromNRCommand               MobilityFromNRCommand,
        dlDedicatedMessageSegment-r16       DLDedicatedMessageSegment-r16,
        ueInformationRequest-r16            UEInformationRequest-r16,
        dlInformationTransferMRDC-r16       DLInformationTransferMRDC-r16,
        loggedMeasurementConfiguration-r16  LoggedMeasurementConfiguration-r16,
                spare3 NULL, spare2 NULL, spare1 NULL
    },
    messageClassExtension   SEQUENCE {}
}

-- TAG-DL-DCCH-MESSAGE-STOP
-- ASN1STOP

–	MCCH-Message
The MCCH-Message class is the set of RRC messages that may be sent from the network to the UE on the MCCH logical channel.
-- ASN1START
-- TAG-MCCH-MESSAGE-START

MCCH-Message-r17 ::= SEQUENCE {
    message              MCCH-MessageType-r17
}

MCCH-MessageType-r17 ::= CHOICE {
    c1                       CHOICE {
        mbsBroadcastConfiguration-r17     MBSBroadcastConfiguration-r17,
        spare1                            NULL
    },
    messageClassExtension   SEQUENCE {}
}

-- TAG-MCCH-MESSAGE-STOP
-- ASN1STOP

–	MulticastMCCH-Message
The MulticastMCCH-Message class is the set of RRC messages that may be sent from the network to the UE on the multicast MCCH logical channel.
-- ASN1START
-- TAG-MULTICASTMCCH-MESSAGE-START

MulticastMCCH-Message-r18 ::= SEQUENCE {
    message                       MulticastMCCH-MessageType-r18
}

MulticastMCCH-MessageType-r18 ::= CHOICE {
    c1                                CHOICE {
        mbsMulticastConfiguration-r18     MBSMulticastConfiguration-r18,
        spare1                            NULL
    },
    messageClassExtension             SEQUENCE {}
}

-- TAG-MULTICASTMCCH-MESSAGE-STOP
-- ASN1STOP

–	PCCH-Message
The PCCH-Message class is the set of RRC messages that may be sent from the Network to the UE on the PCCH logical channel.
-- ASN1START
-- TAG-PCCH-PCH-MESSAGE-START

PCCH-Message ::=                SEQUENCE {
    message                         PCCH-MessageType
}

PCCH-MessageType ::=            CHOICE {
    c1                              CHOICE {
        paging                          Paging,
        spare1  NULL
    },
    messageClassExtension       SEQUENCE {}
}

-- TAG-PCCH-PCH-MESSAGE-STOP
-- ASN1STOP

–	UL-CCCH-Message
The UL-CCCH-Message class is the set of 48-bits RRC messages that may be sent from the UE to the Network on the uplink CCCH logical channel.
-- ASN1START
-- TAG-UL-CCCH-MESSAGE-START


UL-CCCH-Message ::=             SEQUENCE {
    message                         UL-CCCH-MessageType
}

UL-CCCH-MessageType ::=         CHOICE {
    c1                              CHOICE {
        rrcSetupRequest                 RRCSetupRequest,
        rrcResumeRequest                RRCResumeRequest,
        rrcReestablishmentRequest       RRCReestablishmentRequest,
        rrcSystemInfoRequest            RRCSystemInfoRequest
    },
    messageClassExtension           SEQUENCE {}
}

-- TAG-UL-CCCH-MESSAGE-STOP
-- ASN1STOP

–	UL-CCCH1-Message
The UL-CCCH1-Message class is the set of 64-bits RRC messages that may be sent from the UE to the Network on the uplink CCCH1 logical channel.
-- ASN1START
-- TAG-UL-CCCH1-MESSAGE-START


UL-CCCH1-Message ::=            SEQUENCE {
    message                         UL-CCCH1-MessageType
}

UL-CCCH1-MessageType ::=        CHOICE {
    c1                              CHOICE {
        rrcResumeRequest1               RRCResumeRequest1,
        spare3 NULL,
        spare2 NULL,
        spare1 NULL

    },
    messageClassExtension SEQUENCE {}
}

-- TAG-UL-CCCH1-MESSAGE-STOP
-- ASN1STOP

–	UL-DCCH-Message
The UL-DCCH-Message class is the set of RRC messages that may be sent from the UE to the network on the uplink DCCH logical channel.
-- ASN1START
-- TAG-UL-DCCH-MESSAGE-START

UL-DCCH-Message ::=             SEQUENCE {
    message                         UL-DCCH-MessageType
}

UL-DCCH-MessageType ::=         CHOICE {
    c1                              CHOICE {
        measurementReport               MeasurementReport,
        rrcReconfigurationComplete      RRCReconfigurationComplete,
        rrcSetupComplete                RRCSetupComplete,
        rrcReestablishmentComplete      RRCReestablishmentComplete,
        rrcResumeComplete               RRCResumeComplete,
        securityModeComplete            SecurityModeComplete,
        securityModeFailure             SecurityModeFailure,
        ulInformationTransfer           ULInformationTransfer,
        locationMeasurementIndication   LocationMeasurementIndication,
        ueCapabilityInformation         UECapabilityInformation,
        counterCheckResponse            CounterCheckResponse,
        ueAssistanceInformation         UEAssistanceInformation,
        failureInformation              FailureInformation,
        ulInformationTransferMRDC       ULInformationTransferMRDC,
        scgFailureInformation           SCGFailureInformation,
        scgFailureInformationEUTRA      SCGFailureInformationEUTRA
    },
    messageClassExtension           CHOICE {
        c2                              CHOICE {
            ulDedicatedMessageSegment-r16    ULDedicatedMessageSegment-r16,
            dedicatedSIBRequest-r16         DedicatedSIBRequest-r16,
            mcgFailureInformation-r16       MCGFailureInformation-r16,
            ueInformationResponse-r16       UEInformationResponse-r16,
            sidelinkUEInformationNR-r16     SidelinkUEInformationNR-r16,
            ulInformationTransferIRAT-r16   ULInformationTransferIRAT-r16,
            iabOtherInformation-r16         IABOtherInformation-r16,
            mbsInterestIndication-r17       MBSInterestIndication-r17,
            uePositioningAssistanceInfo-r17 UEPositioningAssistanceInfo-r17,
            measurementReportAppLayer-r17   MeasurementReportAppLayer-r17,
            indirectPathFailureInformation-r18 IndirectPathFailureInformation-r18, spare5 NULL, spare4 NULL, spare3 NULL, spare2 NULL, spare1 NULL
        },
        messageClassExtensionFuture-r16    SEQUENCE {}
    }
}

-- TAG-UL-DCCH-MESSAGE-STOP
-- ASN1STOP

6.2.2	Message definitions
–	CounterCheck
The CounterCheck message is used by the network to indicate the current COUNT MSB values associated to each DRB and to request the UE to compare these to its COUNT MSB values and to report the comparison results to the network.
Signalling radio bearer: SRB1
RLC-SAP: AM
Logical channel: DCCH
Direction: Network to UE
CounterCheck message
-- ASN1START
-- TAG-COUNTERCHECK-START


CounterCheck ::=                SEQUENCE {
    rrc-TransactionIdentifier       RRC-TransactionIdentifier,
    criticalExtensions              CHOICE {
        counterCheck                    CounterCheck-IEs,
        criticalExtensionsFuture        SEQUENCE {}
    }
}

CounterCheck-IEs ::=            SEQUENCE {
    drb-CountMSB-InfoList           DRB-CountMSB-InfoList,
    lateNonCriticalExtension        OCTET STRING                        OPTIONAL,
    nonCriticalExtension            SEQUENCE {}                         OPTIONAL
}

DRB-CountMSB-InfoList ::=       SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxDRB)) OF DRB-CountMSB-Info

DRB-CountMSB-Info ::=           SEQUENCE {
    drb-Identity                    DRB-Identity,
    countMSB-Uplink                 INTEGER(0..33554431),
    countMSB-Downlink               INTEGER(0..33554431)
}

-- TAG-COUNTERCHECK-STOP
-- ASN1STOP





–	CounterCheckResponse
The CounterCheckResponse message is used by the UE to respond to a CounterCheck message.
Signalling radio bearer: SRB1
RLC-SAP: AM
Logical channel: DCCH
Direction: UE to Network
CounterCheckResponse message
-- ASN1START
-- TAG-COUNTERCHECKRESPONSE-START

CounterCheckResponse ::=        SEQUENCE {
    rrc-TransactionIdentifier       RRC-TransactionIdentifier,
    criticalExtensions              CHOICE {
        counterCheckResponse            CounterCheckResponse-IEs,
        criticalExtensionsFuture        SEQUENCE {}
    }
}

CounterCheckResponse-IEs ::=    SEQUENCE {
    drb-CountInfoList               DRB-CountInfoList,
    lateNonCriticalExtension        OCTET STRING                        OPTIONAL,
    nonCriticalExtension            SEQUENCE {}                         OPTIONAL

}

DRB-CountInfoList ::=           SEQUENCE (SIZE (0..maxDRB)) OF DRB-CountInfo

DRB-CountInfo ::=               SEQUENCE {
    drb-Identity                    DRB-Identity,
    count-Uplink                    INTEGER(0..4294967295),
    count-Downlink                  INTEGER(0..4294967295)
}

-- TAG-COUNTERCHECKRESPONSE-STOP
-- ASN1STOP





–	DedicatedSIBRequest
The DedicatedSIBRequest message is used to request SIB(s) required by the UE in RRC_CONNECTED as specified in clause 5.2.2.3.5.
Signalling radio bearer: SRB1
RLC-SAP: AM
Logical channel: DCCH
Direction: UE to Network
DedicatedSIBRequest message
-- ASN1START
-- TAG-DEDICATEDSIBREQUEST-START

DedicatedSIBRequest-r16 ::=      SEQUENCE {
    criticalExtensions               CHOICE {
        dedicatedSIBRequest-r16          DedicatedSIBRequest-r16-IEs,
        criticalExtensionsFuture         SEQUENCE {}
    }
}

DedicatedSIBRequest-r16-IEs ::=  SEQUENCE {
    onDemandSIB-RequestList-r16       SEQUENCE {

        requestedSIB-List-r16            SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxOnDemandSIB-r16)) OF SIB-ReqInfo-r16                OPTIONAL,
        requestedPosSIB-List-r16         SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxOnDemandPosSIB-r16)) OF PosSIB-ReqInfo-r16          OPTIONAL
    } OPTIONAL,
    lateNonCriticalExtension         OCTET STRING             OPTIONAL,
    nonCriticalExtension             SEQUENCE {}              OPTIONAL
}

SIB-ReqInfo-r16 ::=                   ENUMERATED { sib12, sib13, sib14, sib20-v1700, sib21-v1700, sib23-v1810, spare2, spare1 }

PosSIB-ReqInfo-r16 ::=       SEQUENCE {
    gnss-id-r16                  GNSS-ID-r16                  OPTIONAL,
    sbas-id-r16                  SBAS-ID-r16                  OPTIONAL,
    posSibType-r16               ENUMERATED { posSibType1-1, posSibType1-2, posSibType1-3, posSibType1-4, posSibType1-5, posSibType1-6,
                                              posSibType1-7, posSibType1-8, posSibType2-1, posSibType2-2, posSibType2-3, posSibType2-4,
                                              posSibType2-5, posSibType2-6, posSibType2-7, posSibType2-8, posSibType2-9, posSibType2-10,
                                              posSibType2-11, posSibType2-12, posSibType2-13, posSibType2-14, posSibType2-15,
                                              posSibType2-16, posSibType2-17, posSibType2-18, posSibType2-19, posSibType2-20,
                                              posSibType2-21, posSibType2-22, posSibType2-23, posSibType3-1, posSibType4-1,
                                              posSibType5-1, posSibType6-1, posSibType6-2, posSibType6-3,..., posSibType1-9-v1710,
                                              posSibType1-10-v1710, posSibType2-24-v1710, posSibType2-25-v1710,
                                              posSibType6-4-v1710, posSibType6-5-v1710, posSibType6-6-v1710, posSibType2-17a-v1770,
                                              posSibType2-18a-v1770, posSibType2-20a-v1770, posSibType1-11-v1800, posSibType1-12-v1800,
                                              posSibType2-26-v1800, posSibType2-27-v1800, posSibType6-7-v1800, posSibType7-1-v1800,
                                              posSibType7-2-v1800, posSibType7-3-v1800, posSibType7-4-v1800 }
}

-- TAG-DEDICATEDSIBREQUEST-STOP
-- ASN1STOP





–	DLDedicatedMessageSegment
The DLDedicatedMessageSegment message is used to transfer one segment of the RRCResume or RRCReconfiguration messages.
Signalling radio bearer: SRB1
RLC-SAP: AM
Logical channel: DCCH
Direction: Network to UE
DLDedicatedMessageSegment message
-- ASN1START
-- TAG-DLDEDICATEDMESSAGESEGMENT-START


DLDedicatedMessageSegment-r16 ::=       SEQUENCE {
    criticalExtensions                      CHOICE {
        dlDedicatedMessageSegment-r16           DLDedicatedMessageSegment-r16-IEs,
        criticalExtensionsFuture                SEQUENCE {}
    }
}

DLDedicatedMessageSegment-r16-IEs ::=   SEQUENCE {
    segmentNumber-r16                       INTEGER(0..4),
    rrc-MessageSegmentContainer-r16         OCTET STRING,
    rrc-MessageSegmentType-r16              ENUMERATED {notLastSegment, lastSegment},
    lateNonCriticalExtension                OCTET STRING                                  OPTIONAL,
    nonCriticalExtension                    SEQUENCE {}                                   OPTIONAL
}

-- TAG-DLDEDICATEDMESSAGESEGMENT-STOP
-- ASN1STOP



–	DLInformationTransfer
The DLInformationTransfer message is used for the downlink transfer of NAS dedicated information, timing information for the 5G internal system clock, or IAB-DU specific F1-C related information.
Signalling radio bearer: SRB2 or SRB1 (only if SRB2 not established yet). If SRB2 is suspended, the network does not send this message until SRB2 is resumed. If only dedicatedInfoF1c is included, SRB2 is used.
RLC-SAP: AM
Logical channel: DCCH
Direction: Network to UE
DLInformationTransfer message
-- ASN1START
-- TAG-DLINFORMATIONTRANSFER-START

DLInformationTransfer ::=           SEQUENCE {
    rrc-TransactionIdentifier           RRC-TransactionIdentifier,
    criticalExtensions                  CHOICE {
        dlInformationTransfer           DLInformationTransfer-IEs,
        criticalExtensionsFuture            SEQUENCE {}
    }
}

DLInformationTransfer-IEs ::=       SEQUENCE {
    dedicatedNAS-Message                DedicatedNAS-Message                OPTIONAL,   -- Need N
    lateNonCriticalExtension            OCTET STRING                        OPTIONAL,
    nonCriticalExtension                DLInformationTransfer-v1610-IEs     OPTIONAL
}

DLInformationTransfer-v1610-IEs ::= SEQUENCE {
    referenceTimeInfo-r16               ReferenceTimeInfo-r16               OPTIONAL,   -- Need N
    nonCriticalExtension                DLInformationTransfer-v1700-IEs     OPTIONAL
}

DLInformationTransfer-v1700-IEs ::= SEQUENCE {
    dedicatedInfoF1c-r17                DedicatedInfoF1c-r17                OPTIONAL,   -- Need N
    rxTxTimeDiff-gNB-r17                RxTxTimeDiff-r17                    OPTIONAL,   -- Need N
    ta-PDC-r17                          ENUMERATED {activate,deactivate}    OPTIONAL,   -- Need N
    sib9Fallback-r17                    ENUMERATED {true}                   OPTIONAL,   -- Need N
    nonCriticalExtension                DLInformationTransfer-v1800-IEs     OPTIONAL
}

DLInformationTransfer-v1800-IEs ::= SEQUENCE {
    eventID-TSS-r18                     INTEGER(0..63)                      OPTIONAL,   -- Cond ClockQualityDetailsLevel
    clockQualityDetailsLevel-r18        CHOICE {
        clockQualityMetrics-r18             ClockQualityMetrics-r18,
        clockQualityAcceptanceStatus-r18    ENUMERATED {acceptable, notAcceptable}
    }                                                                       OPTIONAL,   -- Need N
    nonCriticalExtension                SEQUENCE {}                         OPTIONAL
}

-- TAG-DLINFORMATIONTRANSFER-STOP
-- ASN1STOP





–	DLInformationTransferMRDC
The DLInformationTransferMRDC message is used for the downlink transfer of RRC messages during fast MCG link recovery.
Signalling radio bearer: SRB3
RLC-SAP: AM
Logical channel: DCCH
Direction: Network to UE
DLInformationTransferMRDC message
-- ASN1START
-- TAG-DLINFORMATIONTRANSFERMRDC-START

DLInformationTransferMRDC-r16 ::=       SEQUENCE {
    criticalExtensions                      CHOICE {
        c1                                      CHOICE {
            dlInformationTransferMRDC-r16           DLInformationTransferMRDC-r16-IEs,
            spare3 NULL, spare2 NULL, spare1 NULL
        },
        criticalExtensionsFuture                SEQUENCE {}
    }
}

DLInformationTransferMRDC-r16-IEs::=    SEQUENCE {
    dl-DCCH-MessageNR-r16                   OCTET STRING             OPTIONAL, -- Need N
    dl-DCCH-MessageEUTRA-r16                OCTET STRING             OPTIONAL, -- Need N
    lateNonCriticalExtension                OCTET STRING             OPTIONAL,
    nonCriticalExtension                    SEQUENCE {}              OPTIONAL
}

-- TAG-DLINFORMATIONTRANSFERMRDC-STOP
-- ASN1STOP




–	FailureInformation
The FailureInformation message is used to inform the network about a failure detected by the UE.
Signalling radio bearer: SRB1 or SRB3
RLC-SAP: AM
Logical channel: DCCH
Direction: UE to network
FailureInformation message
-- ASN1START
-- TAG-FAILUREINFORMATION-START

FailureInformation ::=         SEQUENCE {
    criticalExtensions             CHOICE {
        failureInformation             FailureInformation-IEs,
        criticalExtensionsFuture       SEQUENCE {}
    }
}

FailureInformation-IEs ::=     SEQUENCE {
    failureInfoRLC-Bearer          FailureInfoRLC-Bearer        OPTIONAL,
    lateNonCriticalExtension       OCTET STRING                 OPTIONAL,
    nonCriticalExtension           FailureInformation-v1610-IEs OPTIONAL
}

FailureInfoRLC-Bearer ::=      SEQUENCE {
    cellGroupId                    CellGroupId,
    logicalChannelIdentity         LogicalChannelIdentity,
    failureType                    ENUMERATED {rlc-failure, spare3, spare2, spare1}
}

FailureInformation-v1610-IEs ::= SEQUENCE {
    failureInfoDAPS-r16              FailureInfoDAPS-r16        OPTIONAL,
    nonCriticalExtension             SEQUENCE {}                OPTIONAL
}

FailureInfoDAPS-r16 ::=          SEQUENCE {
    failureType-r16                  ENUMERATED {daps-failure, spare3, spare2, spare1}
}

-- TAG-FAILUREINFORMATION-STOP
-- ASN1STOP

–	IABOtherInformation
The IABOtherInformation message is used by IAB-MT to request the network to allocate IP addresses for the collocated IAB-DU or inform the network about IP addresses allocated to the collocated IAB-DU.
Signalling radio bearer: SRB1 or SRB3
RLC-SAP: AM
Logical channel: DCCH
Direction: IAB-MT to Network
IABOtherInformation message
-- ASN1START
-- TAG-IABOTHERINFORMATION-START

IABOtherInformation-r16 ::=     SEQUENCE {
    dummy                           RRC-TransactionIdentifier,
    criticalExtensions              CHOICE {
        iabOtherInformation-r16         IABOtherInformation-r16-IEs,
        criticalExtensionsFuture        SEQUENCE {}
    }
}

IABOtherInformation-r16-IEs ::=         SEQUENCE {
    ip-InfoType-r16                         CHOICE {
        iab-IP-Request-r16                      SEQUENCE {
            iab-IPv4-AddressNumReq-r16              IAB-IP-AddressNumReq-r16                OPTIONAL,
            iab-IPv6-AddressReq-r16                 CHOICE {
                iab-IPv6-AddressNumReq-r16              IAB-IP-AddressNumReq-r16,
                iab-IPv6-AddressPrefixReq-r16           IAB-IP-AddressPrefixReq-r16,
                ...
            }                                                                               OPTIONAL
        },
        iab-IP-Report-r16               SEQUENCE {
            iab-IPv4-AddressReport-r16      IAB-IP-AddressAndTraffic-r16                    OPTIONAL,
            iab-IPv6-Report-r16             CHOICE {
                iab-IPv6-AddressReport-r16      IAB-IP-AddressAndTraffic-r16,
                iab-IPv6-PrefixReport-r16       IAB-IP-PrefixAndTraffic-r16,
                ...
            }                                                                               OPTIONAL
        },
        ...
    },
    lateNonCriticalExtension        OCTET STRING                                            OPTIONAL,
    nonCriticalExtension            SEQUENCE {}                                             OPTIONAL
}

IAB-IP-AddressNumReq-r16 ::=    SEQUENCE {
    all-Traffic-NumReq-r16          INTEGER (1..8)                                  OPTIONAL,
    f1-C-Traffic-NumReq-r16         INTEGER (1..8)                                  OPTIONAL,
    f1-U-Traffic-NumReq-r16         INTEGER (1..8)                                  OPTIONAL,
    non-F1-Traffic-NumReq-r16       INTEGER (1..8)                                  OPTIONAL,
    ...
}

IAB-IP-AddressPrefixReq-r16 ::= SEQUENCE {
    all-Traffic-PrefixReq-r16       ENUMERATED {true}                               OPTIONAL,
    f1-C-Traffic-PrefixReq-r16      ENUMERATED {true}                               OPTIONAL,
    f1-U-Traffic-PrefixReq-r16      ENUMERATED {true}                               OPTIONAL,
    non-F1-Traffic-PrefixReq-r16    ENUMERATED {true}                               OPTIONAL,
    ...
}

IAB-IP-AddressAndTraffic-r16 ::= SEQUENCE {
    all-Traffic-IAB-IP-Address-r16  SEQUENCE (SIZE(1..8)) OF IAB-IP-Address-r16     OPTIONAL,
    f1-C-Traffic-IP-Address-r16     SEQUENCE (SIZE(1..8)) OF IAB-IP-Address-r16     OPTIONAL,
    f1-U-Traffic-IP-Address-r16     SEQUENCE (SIZE(1..8)) OF IAB-IP-Address-r16     OPTIONAL,
    non-F1-Traffic-IP-Address-r16   SEQUENCE (SIZE(1..8)) OF IAB-IP-Address-r16     OPTIONAL
}

IAB-IP-PrefixAndTraffic-r16 ::= SEQUENCE {
    all-Traffic-IAB-IP-Address-r16  IAB-IP-Address-r16                              OPTIONAL,
    f1-C-Traffic-IP-Address-r16     IAB-IP-Address-r16                              OPTIONAL,
    f1-U-Traffic-IP-Address-r16     IAB-IP-Address-r16                              OPTIONAL,
    non-F1-Traffic-IP-Address-r16   IAB-IP-Address-r16                              OPTIONAL
}

-- TAG-IABOTHERINFORMATION-STOP
-- ASN1STOP









–	IndirectPathFailureInformation
The IndirectPathFailureInformation message is used to provide information regarding indirect path failure detected by the MP remote UE.
Signalling radio bearer: SRB1
RLC-SAP: AM
Logical channel: DCCH
Direction: UE to Network
IndirectPathFailureInformation message
-- ASN1START
-- TAG-INDIRECTPATHFAILUREINFORMATION-START

IndirectPathFailureInformation-r18 ::=        SEQUENCE {
    criticalExtensions                            CHOICE {
        indirectPathFailureInformation-r18            IndirectPathFailureInformation-r18-IEs,
        criticalExtensionsFuture                      SEQUENCE {}
    }
}

IndirectPathFailureInformation-r18-IEs ::=    SEQUENCE {
    failureReportIndirectPath-r18                 FailureReportIndirectPath-r18                    OPTIONAL,
    lateNonCriticalExtension                      OCTET STRING                                     OPTIONAL,
    nonCriticalExtension                          SEQUENCE {}                                      OPTIONAL
}

FailureReportIndirectPath-r18 ::=             SEQUENCE {
    failureTypeIndirectPath-r18                   ENUMERATED {t421-Expiry,sl-Failure,n3c-Failure, relayUE-Uu-RLF,
                                                              relayUE-Uu-RRC-Failure,
                                                              indirectPathAddChangeFailure, sl-PC5-Release, spare1} OPTIONAL,
    sl-MeasResultServingRelay-r18                 OCTET STRING                                     OPTIONAL,
                                                                                          -- Contains PC5 SL-MeasResultRelay-r17
    sl-MeasResultsCandRelay-r18                   OCTET STRING                                     OPTIONAL,
    n3c-RelayUE-InfoList-r18                      SEQUENCE (SIZE (0..8)) OF N3C-RelayUE-Info-r18   OPTIONAL,
    ...
}

-- TAG-INDIRECTPATHFAILUREINFORMATION-STOP
-- ASN1STOP



–	LocationMeasurementIndication
The LocationMeasurementIndication message is used to indicate that the UE is going to either start or stop location related measurement which requires measurement gaps.
Signalling radio bearer: SRB1
RLC-SAP: AM
Logical channel: DCCH
Direction: UE to Network
LocationMeasurementIndication message
-- ASN1START
-- TAG-LOCATIONMEASUREMENTINDICATION-START

LocationMeasurementIndication ::=           SEQUENCE {
    criticalExtensions                          CHOICE {
        locationMeasurementIndication               LocationMeasurementIndication-IEs,
        criticalExtensionsFuture                    SEQUENCE {}
    }
}

LocationMeasurementIndication-IEs ::=       SEQUENCE {
    measurementIndication                       SetupRelease {LocationMeasurementInfo},
    lateNonCriticalExtension                    OCTET STRING                                                            OPTIONAL,
    nonCriticalExtension                        SEQUENCE{}                                                              OPTIONAL
}

-- TAG-LOCATIONMEASUREMENTINDICATION-STOP
-- ASN1STOP

–	LoggedMeasurementConfiguration
The LoggedMeasurementConfiguration message is used to perform logging of measurement results while in RRC_IDLE or RRC_INACTIVE. It is used to transfer the logged measurement configuration for network performance optimisation.
Signalling radio bearer: SRB1
RLC-SAP: AM
Logical channel: DCCH
Direction: Network to UE
LoggedMeasurementConfiguration message
-- ASN1START
-- TAG-LOGGEDMEASUREMENTCONFIGURATION-START

LoggedMeasurementConfiguration-r16 ::=  SEQUENCE {
    criticalExtensions                      CHOICE {
        loggedMeasurementConfiguration-r16      LoggedMeasurementConfiguration-r16-IEs,
        criticalExtensionsFuture                SEQUENCE {}
    }
}

LoggedMeasurementConfiguration-r16-IEs ::=  SEQUENCE {
    traceReference-r16                          TraceReference-r16,
    traceRecordingSessionRef-r16                OCTET STRING (SIZE (2)),
    tce-Id-r16                                  OCTET STRING (SIZE (1)),
    absoluteTimeInfo-r16                        AbsoluteTimeInfo-r16,
    areaConfiguration-r16                       AreaConfiguration-r16                    OPTIONAL,  --Need R
    plmn-IdentityList-r16                       PLMN-IdentityList2-r16                   OPTIONAL,  --Need R
    bt-NameList-r16                             SetupRelease {BT-NameList-r16}           OPTIONAL,  --Need M
    wlan-NameList-r16                           SetupRelease {WLAN-NameList-r16}         OPTIONAL,  --Need M
    sensor-NameList-r16                         SetupRelease {Sensor-NameList-r16}       OPTIONAL,  --Need M
    loggingDuration-r16                         LoggingDuration-r16,
    reportType                                  CHOICE {
        periodical                                  LoggedPeriodicalReportConfig-r16,
        eventTriggered                              LoggedEventTriggerConfig-r16,
        ...
    },
    lateNonCriticalExtension                    OCTET STRING                             OPTIONAL,
    nonCriticalExtension                        LoggedMeasurementConfiguration-v1700-IEs OPTIONAL
}

LoggedMeasurementConfiguration-v1700-IEs ::= SEQUENCE {
    sigLoggedMeasType-r17                       ENUMERATED {true}                        OPTIONAL, -- Need R
    earlyMeasIndication-r17                     ENUMERATED {true}                        OPTIONAL, -- Need R
    areaConfiguration-r17                       AreaConfiguration-r17                    OPTIONAL,  --Need R
    nonCriticalExtension                        LoggedMeasurementConfiguration-v1800-IEs OPTIONAL
}

LoggedMeasurementConfiguration-v1800-IEs ::= SEQUENCE {
    areaConfiguration-v1800                     AreaConfiguration-v1800                  OPTIONAL,  --Need R
    nonCriticalExtension                        SEQUENCE {}                              OPTIONAL
}

LoggedPeriodicalReportConfig-r16 ::=            SEQUENCE {
    loggingInterval-r16                             LoggingInterval-r16,
    ...
 }

LoggedEventTriggerConfig-r16 ::=                SEQUENCE {
    eventType-r16                                   EventType-r16,
    loggingInterval-r16                             LoggingInterval-r16,
    ...
}

EventType-r16 ::= CHOICE {
    outOfCoverage     NULL,
    eventL1           SEQUENCE {
        l1-Threshold      MeasTriggerQuantity,
        hysteresis        Hysteresis,
        timeToTrigger     TimeToTrigger
    },
    ...
}

-- TAG-LOGGEDMEASUREMENTCONFIGURATION-STOP
-- ASN1STOP



NOTE 1:	The UE should perform measurement logging based on the following area configuration limitations:
-	If the areaConfiguration-r16/areaConfiguration-r17 is present, and the cag-ConfigList is absent, the UE should perform logging in both PN and PNI-NPN based on areaConfiguration-r16/areaConfiguration-r17, if any;
-	If the areaConfiguration-r17 and the cag-ConfigList are present simultaneously, the UE should perform logging in PN within the areaConfig-r16/areaConfig-r17 and perform logging in PNI-NPN within cag-ConfigList;
-	If the snpn-ConfigList is present, the UE should perform logging only in SNPN based on snpn-ConfigList. The snpn-ConfigList should not be configured together with PN or PNI-NPN area configurations.

–	MBSBroadcastConfiguration
The MBSBroadcastConfiguration message contains the control information applicable for MBS broadcast services transmitted via broadcast MRB.
Signalling radio bearer: N/A
RLC-SAP: UM
Logical channel: MCCH
Direction: Network to UE
MBSBroadcastConfiguration message
-- ASN1START
-- TAG-MBSBROADCASTCONFIGURATION-START

MBSBroadcastConfiguration-r17 ::= SEQUENCE {
    criticalExtensions                CHOICE {
        mbsBroadcastConfiguration-r17     MBSBroadcastConfiguration-r17-IEs,
        criticalExtensionsFuture          SEQUENCE {}
    }
}

MBSBroadcastConfiguration-r17-IEs ::= SEQUENCE {
    mbs-SessionInfoList-r17               MBS-SessionInfoList-r17                                              OPTIONAL,   -- Need R
    mbs-NeighbourCellList-r17             MBS-NeighbourCellList-r17                                            OPTIONAL,   -- Need S
    drx-ConfigPTM-List-r17                SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxNrofDRX-ConfigPTM-r17)) OF DRX-ConfigPTM-r17   OPTIONAL,   -- Need R
    pdsch-ConfigMTCH-r17                  PDSCH-ConfigBroadcast-r17                                            OPTIONAL,   -- Need S
    mtch-SSB-MappingWindowList-r17        MTCH-SSB-MappingWindowList-r17                                       OPTIONAL,   -- Need R
    lateNonCriticalExtension              OCTET STRING                                                         OPTIONAL,
    nonCriticalExtension                  SEQUENCE {}                                                          OPTIONAL
}

-- TAG-MBSBROADCASTCONFIGURATION-STOP
-- ASN1STOP



–	MBSInterestIndication
The MBSInterestIndication message is used to inform network that the UE is receiving/ interested to receive or no longer receiving/ interested to receive MBS broadcast service(s) via a broadcast MRB.
Signalling radio bearer: SRB1
RLC-SAP: AM
Logical channel: DCCH
Direction: UE to Network
MBSInterestIndication message
-- ASN1START
-- TAG-MBSINTERESTINDICATION-START

MBSInterestIndication-r17 ::= SEQUENCE {
    criticalExtensions            CHOICE {
        mbsInterestIndication-r17     MBSInterestIndication-r17-IEs,
        criticalExtensionsFuture      SEQUENCE {}
    }
}

MBSInterestIndication-r17-IEs ::= SEQUENCE {
    mbs-FreqList-r17                  CarrierFreqListMBS-r17              OPTIONAL,
    mbs-Priority-r17                  ENUMERATED {true}                   OPTIONAL,
    mbs-ServiceList-r17               MBS-ServiceList-r17                 OPTIONAL,
    lateNonCriticalExtension          OCTET STRING                        OPTIONAL,
    nonCriticalExtension              MBSInterestIndication-v1800         OPTIONAL
}

MBSInterestIndication-v1800 ::= SEQUENCE {
    mbs-NonServingInfoList-r18        MBS-NonServingInfoList-r18          OPTIONAL,
    nonCriticalExtension              SEQUENCE {}                         OPTIONAL
}

-- TAG-MBSINTERESTINDICATION-STOP
-- ASN1STOP



–	MBSMulticastConfiguration
The MBSMulticastConfiguration message contains the control information applicable for MBS multicast services transmitted via multicast MRBs for RRC_INACTIVE UEs.
Signalling radio bearer: N/A
RLC-SAP: UM
Logical channel: multicast MCCH
Direction: Network to UE
MBSMulticastConfiguration message
-- ASN1START
-- TAG-MBSMULTICASTCONFIGURATION-START

MBSMulticastConfiguration-r18 ::= SEQUENCE {
    criticalExtensions                CHOICE {
        mbsMulticastConfiguration-r18     MBSMulticastConfiguration-r18-IEs,
        criticalExtensionsFuture          SEQUENCE {}
    }
}

MBSMulticastConfiguration-r18-IEs ::= SEQUENCE {
    mbs-SessionInfoListMulticast-r18      MBS-SessionInfoListMulticast-r18                                     OPTIONAL,   -- Need R
    mbs-NeighbourCellList-r18             MBS-NeighbourCellList-r17                                            OPTIONAL,   -- Need S
    drx-ConfigPTM-List-r18                SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxNrofDRX-ConfigPTM-r17)) OF DRX-ConfigPTM-r17   OPTIONAL,   -- Need R
    pdsch-ConfigMTCH-r18                  PDSCH-ConfigBroadcast-r17                                            OPTIONAL,   -- Need S
    mtch-SSB-MappingWindowList-r18        MTCH-SSB-MappingWindowList-r17                                       OPTIONAL,   -- Need R
    thresholdMBS-List-r18                 SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxNrofThresholdMBS-r18)) OF ThresholdMBS-r18     OPTIONAL,   -- Need R
    lateNonCriticalExtension              OCTET STRING                                                         OPTIONAL,
    nonCriticalExtension                  SEQUENCE {}                                                          OPTIONAL
}

ThresholdMBS-r18 ::=                  SEQUENCE {
    rsrp-r18                              RSRP-Range                                                           OPTIONAL,   -- Need R
    rsrq-r18                              RSRQ-Range                                                           OPTIONAL    -- Need R
}

-- TAG-MBSMULTICASTCONFIGURATION-STOP
-- ASN1STOP



–	MCGFailureInformation
The MCGFailureInformation message is used to provide information regarding NR MCG failures detected by the UE.
Signalling radio bearer: SRB1
RLC-SAP: AM
Logical channel: DCCH
Direction: UE to Network
MCGFailureInformation message
-- ASN1START
-- TAG-MCGFAILUREINFORMATION-START

MCGFailureInformation-r16 ::=    SEQUENCE {
    criticalExtensions               CHOICE {
        mcgFailureInformation-r16        MCGFailureInformation-r16-IEs,
        criticalExtensionsFuture         SEQUENCE {}
    }
}

MCGFailureInformation-r16-IEs ::= SEQUENCE {
    failureReportMCG-r16              FailureReportMCG-r16                             OPTIONAL,
    lateNonCriticalExtension          OCTET STRING                                     OPTIONAL,
    nonCriticalExtension              SEQUENCE {}                                      OPTIONAL
}

FailureReportMCG-r16 ::=          SEQUENCE {
    failureType-r16                   ENUMERATED {t310-Expiry, randomAccessProblem, rlc-MaxNumRetx,
                                                         t312-Expiry-r16, lbt-Failure-r16, beamFailureRecoveryFailure-r16,
                                         bh-RLF-r16, spare1}                                                                            OPTIONAL,
    measResultFreqList-r16            MeasResultList2NR                                                                     OPTIONAL,
    measResultFreqListEUTRA-r16       MeasResultList2EUTRA                                                                  OPTIONAL,
    measResultSCG-r16                 OCTET STRING (CONTAINING MeasResultSCG-Failure)                                       OPTIONAL,
    measResultSCG-EUTRA-r16           OCTET STRING                                                                          OPTIONAL,
    measResultFreqListUTRA-FDD-r16    MeasResultList2UTRA                                                                   OPTIONAL,
    ...
}

MeasResultList2UTRA ::=    SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxFreq)) OF MeasResult2UTRA-FDD-r16

MeasResult2UTRA-FDD-r16 ::=       SEQUENCE {
    carrierFreq-r16                   ARFCN-ValueUTRA-FDD-r16,
    measResultNeighCellList-r16       MeasResultListUTRA-FDD-r16
}

MeasResultList2EUTRA ::=          SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxFreq)) OF MeasResult2EUTRA-r16

-- TAG-MCGFAILUREINFORMATION-STOP
-- ASN1STOP



–	MeasurementReport
The MeasurementReport message is used for the indication of measurement results.
Signalling radio bearer: SRB1, SRB3
RLC-SAP: AM
Logical channel: DCCH
Direction: UE to Network
MeasurementReport message
-- ASN1START
-- TAG-MEASUREMENTREPORT-START

MeasurementReport ::=               SEQUENCE {
    criticalExtensions                  CHOICE {
        measurementReport                   MeasurementReport-IEs,
        criticalExtensionsFuture            SEQUENCE {}
    }
}

MeasurementReport-IEs ::=           SEQUENCE {
    measResults                         MeasResults,

    lateNonCriticalExtension                OCTET STRING                                                            OPTIONAL,
    nonCriticalExtension                    SEQUENCE{}                                                              OPTIONAL
}

-- TAG-MEASUREMENTREPORT-STOP
-- ASN1STOP

–	MeasurementReportAppLayer
The MeasurementReportAppLayer message is used for sending application layer measurement report.
Signalling radio bearer: SRB4, SRB5
RLC-SAP: AM
Logical channel: DCCH
Direction: UE to Network
MeasurementReportAppLayer message
-- ASN1START
-- TAG-MEASUREMENTREPORTAPPLAYER-START

MeasurementReportAppLayer-r17 ::=     SEQUENCE {
    criticalExtensions                    CHOICE {
        measurementReportAppLayer-r17     MeasurementReportAppLayer-r17-IEs,
        criticalExtensionsFuture              SEQUENCE {}
    }
}

MeasurementReportAppLayer-r17-IEs ::=   SEQUENCE {
    measurementReportAppLayerList-r17       MeasurementReportAppLayerList-r17,
    lateNonCriticalExtension                OCTET STRING                                                           OPTIONAL,
    nonCriticalExtension                    MeasurementReportAppLayer-v1800-IEs                                    OPTIONAL
}

MeasurementReportAppLayer-v1800-IEs ::= SEQUENCE {
    measurementReportAppLayerList-v1800     MeasurementReportAppLayerList-v1800                                    OPTIONAL,
    nonCriticalExtension                    SEQUENCE{}                                                             OPTIONAL
}

MeasurementReportAppLayerList-r17 ::= SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxNrofAppLayerMeas-r17)) OF MeasReportAppLayer-r17

MeasurementReportAppLayerList-v1800 ::= SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxNrofAppLayerMeas-r17)) OF MeasReportAppLayer-v1800

MeasReportAppLayer-r17 ::=            SEQUENCE {
    measConfigAppLayerId-r17              MeasConfigAppLayerId-r17,
    measReportAppLayerContainer-r17       OCTET STRING                                                             OPTIONAL,
    appLayerSessionStatus-r17             ENUMERATED {start, stop}                                                 OPTIONAL,
    ran-VisibleMeasurements-r17           RAN-VisibleMeasurements-r17                                              OPTIONAL
}

MeasReportAppLayer-v1800 ::=          SEQUENCE {
    appLayerIdleInactiveConfig-r18        AppLayerIdleInactiveConfig-r18                                           OPTIONAL,
    measReportAppLayerContainerList-r18   SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxNrofAppLayerReports-r18)) OF OCTET STRING          OPTIONAL,
    ...
}

RAN-VisibleMeasurements-r17 ::=       SEQUENCE {
    appLayerBufferLevelList-r17           SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..8)) OF AppLayerBufferLevel-r17                        OPTIONAL,
    playoutDelayForMediaStartup-r17       INTEGER (0..30000)                                                       OPTIONAL,
    pdu-SessionIdList-r17                 SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxNrofPDU-Sessions-r17)) OF PDU-SessionID            OPTIONAL,
    ...,
    [[
    pdu-SessionIdListExt-v1800            SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxNrofPDU-Sessions-r17)) OF QFI-List-r18             OPTIONAL
    ]]
}

AppLayerBufferLevel-r17 ::= INTEGER (0..30000)

QFI-List-r18 ::= SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxNrofQFIs)) OF QFI

-- TAG-MEASUREMENTREPORTAPPLAYER-STOP
-- ASN1STOP







–	MIB
The MIB includes the system information transmitted on BCH.
Signalling radio bearer: N/A
RLC-SAP: TM
Logical channel: BCCH
Direction: Network to UE
MIB
-- ASN1START
-- TAG-MIB-START

MIB ::=                             SEQUENCE {
    systemFrameNumber                   BIT STRING (SIZE (6)),
    subCarrierSpacingCommon             ENUMERATED {scs15or60, scs30or120},
    ssb-SubcarrierOffset                INTEGER (0..15),
    dmrs-TypeA-Position                 ENUMERATED {pos2, pos3},
    pdcch-ConfigSIB1                    PDCCH-ConfigSIB1,
    cellBarred                          ENUMERATED {barred, notBarred},
    intraFreqReselection                ENUMERATED {allowed, notAllowed},
    spare                               BIT STRING (SIZE (1))
}

-- TAG-MIB-STOP
-- ASN1STOP



–	MobilityFromNRCommand
The MobilityFromNRCommand message is used to command handover from NR to E-UTRA/EPC, E-UTRA/5GC or UTRA-FDD.
Signalling radio bearer: SRB1
RLC-SAP: AM
Logical channel: DCCH
Direction: Network to UE
MobilityFromNRCommand message
-- ASN1START
-- TAG-MOBILITYFROMNRCOMMAND-START

MobilityFromNRCommand ::=           SEQUENCE {
    rrc-TransactionIdentifier           RRC-TransactionIdentifier,
    criticalExtensions                  CHOICE {
            mobilityFromNRCommand           MobilityFromNRCommand-IEs,
            criticalExtensionsFuture        SEQUENCE {}
    }
}

MobilityFromNRCommand-IEs ::=       SEQUENCE {
    targetRAT-Type                      ENUMERATED { eutra, utra-fdd-v1610, spare2, spare1, ...},
    targetRAT-MessageContainer          OCTET STRING,
    nas-SecurityParamFromNR             OCTET STRING                                                OPTIONAL,   -- Cond HO-ToEPCUTRAN
    lateNonCriticalExtension            OCTET STRING                                                OPTIONAL,
    nonCriticalExtension                MobilityFromNRCommand-v1610-IEs                             OPTIONAL
}

MobilityFromNRCommand-v1610-IEs ::=     SEQUENCE {
    voiceFallbackIndication-r16             ENUMERATED {true}                                       OPTIONAL,   -- Need N
    nonCriticalExtension                    SEQUENCE {}                                             OPTIONAL
}

-- TAG-MOBILITYFROMNRCOMMAND-STOP
-- ASN1STOP



NOTE 1:	The correspondence between the value of the targetRAT-Type, the standard to apply, and the message contained within the targetRAT-MessageContainer is shown in the table below:




–	Paging
The Paging message is used for the notification of one or more UEs.
Signalling radio bearer: N/A
RLC-SAP: TM
Logical channel: PCCH
Direction: Network to UE
Paging message
-- ASN1START
-- TAG-PAGING-START

Paging ::=                          SEQUENCE {
    pagingRecordList                    PagingRecordList                                                        OPTIONAL, -- Need N
    lateNonCriticalExtension            OCTET STRING                                                            OPTIONAL,
    nonCriticalExtension                Paging-v1700-IEs                                                        OPTIONAL
}

Paging-v1700-IEs ::=                SEQUENCE {
    pagingRecordList-v1700              PagingRecordList-v1700                                                  OPTIONAL, -- Need N
    pagingGroupList-r17                 PagingGroupList-r17                                                     OPTIONAL, -- Need N
    nonCriticalExtension                Paging-v1800-IEs                                                        OPTIONAL
}

Paging-v1800-IEs ::=                SEQUENCE {
    pagingRecordList-v1800              PagingRecordList-v1800                                                  OPTIONAL, -- Need N
    pagingGroupList-v1800               PagingGroupList-v1800                                                   OPTIONAL, -- Need N
    nonCriticalExtension                SEQUENCE {}                                                             OPTIONAL
}

PagingRecordList ::=                SEQUENCE (SIZE(1..maxNrofPageRec)) OF PagingRecord

PagingRecordList-v1700 ::=          SEQUENCE (SIZE(1..maxNrofPageRec)) OF PagingRecord-v1700

PagingGroupList-r17 ::=             SEQUENCE (SIZE(1..maxNrofPageGroup-r17)) OF TMGI-r17

PagingRecordList-v1800 ::=          SEQUENCE (SIZE(1..maxNrofPageRec)) OF PagingRecord-v1800

PagingGroupList-v1800 ::=           SEQUENCE (SIZE(1..maxNrofPageGroup-r17)) OF GroupPaging-r18

PagingRecord ::=                    SEQUENCE {
    ue-Identity                         PagingUE-Identity,
    accessType                          ENUMERATED {non3GPP}    OPTIONAL,   -- Need N
    ...
}

PagingRecord-v1700 ::=              SEQUENCE {
    pagingCause-r17                     ENUMERATED {voice}      OPTIONAL    -- Need N
}

PagingRecord-v1800 ::=              SEQUENCE {
    mt-SDT                              ENUMERATED {true}       OPTIONAL    -- Need N
}

PagingUE-Identity ::=               CHOICE {
    ng-5G-S-TMSI                        NG-5G-S-TMSI,
    fullI-RNTI                          I-RNTI-Value,
    ...
}

GroupPaging-r18 ::=                 SEQUENCE {
    inactiveReceptionAllowed-r18        ENUMERATED {true}       OPTIONAL    -- Need N
}

-- TAG-PAGING-STOP
-- ASN1STOP



–	RRCReestablishment
The RRCReestablishment message is used to re-establish SRB1.
Signalling radio bearer: SRB1
RLC-SAP: AM
Logical channel: DCCH
Direction: Network to UE
RRCReestablishment message
-- ASN1START
-- TAG-RRCREESTABLISHMENT-START

RRCReestablishment ::=              SEQUENCE {
    rrc-TransactionIdentifier           RRC-TransactionIdentifier,
    criticalExtensions                  CHOICE {
        rrcReestablishment                  RRCReestablishment-IEs,
        criticalExtensionsFuture            SEQUENCE {}
    }
}

RRCReestablishment-IEs ::=          SEQUENCE {
    nextHopChainingCount                NextHopChainingCount,
    lateNonCriticalExtension            OCTET STRING                        OPTIONAL,
    nonCriticalExtension                RRCReestablishment-v1700-IEs         OPTIONAL
}

RRCReestablishment-v1700-IEs ::=    SEQUENCE {
    sl-L2RemoteUE-Config-r17            SetupRelease {SL-L2RemoteUE-Config-r17}    OPTIONAL, -- Cond L2RemoteUE
    nonCriticalExtension                SEQUENCE {}                                OPTIONAL
}

-- TAG-RRCREESTABLISHMENT-STOP
-- ASN1STOP





–	RRCReestablishmentComplete
The RRCReestablishmentComplete message is used to confirm the successful completion of an RRC connection re-establishment.
Signalling radio bearer: SRB1
RLC-SAP: AM
Logical channel: DCCH
Direction: UE to Network
RRCReestablishmentComplete message
-- ASN1START
-- TAG-RRCREESTABLISHMENTCOMPLETE-START

RRCReestablishmentComplete ::=              SEQUENCE {
    rrc-TransactionIdentifier                   RRC-TransactionIdentifier,
    criticalExtensions                          CHOICE {
        rrcReestablishmentComplete                  RRCReestablishmentComplete-IEs,
        criticalExtensionsFuture                    SEQUENCE {}
    }
}

RRCReestablishmentComplete-IEs ::=          SEQUENCE {
    lateNonCriticalExtension                    OCTET STRING                            OPTIONAL,
    nonCriticalExtension                        RRCReestablishmentComplete-v1610-IEs    OPTIONAL
}

RRCReestablishmentComplete-v1610-IEs ::=    SEQUENCE {
    ue-MeasurementsAvailable-r16                UE-MeasurementsAvailable-r16            OPTIONAL,
    nonCriticalExtension                        RRCReestablishmentComplete-v1800-IEs    OPTIONAL
}

RRCReestablishmentComplete-v1800-IEs ::=    SEQUENCE {
    flightPathInfoAvailable-r18                 ENUMERATED {true}                       OPTIONAL,
    measConfigReportAppLayerAvailable-r18       ENUMERATED {true}                       OPTIONAL,
    musim-CapRestrictionInd-r18                 ENUMERATED {true}                       OPTIONAL,
    nonCriticalExtension                        SEQUENCE {}                             OPTIONAL
}

-- TAG-RRCREESTABLISHMENTCOMPLETE-STOP
-- ASN1STOP



–	RRCReestablishmentRequest
The RRCReestablishmentRequest message is used to request the reestablishment of an RRC connection.
Signalling radio bearer: SRB0
RLC-SAP: TM
Logical channel: CCCH
Direction: UE to Network
RRCReestablishmentRequest message
-- ASN1START
-- TAG-RRCREESTABLISHMENTREQUEST-START


RRCReestablishmentRequest ::=       SEQUENCE {
    rrcReestablishmentRequest           RRCReestablishmentRequest-IEs
}

RRCReestablishmentRequest-IEs ::=   SEQUENCE {
    ue-Identity                         ReestabUE-Identity,
    reestablishmentCause                ReestablishmentCause,
    spare                               BIT STRING (SIZE (1))
}

ReestabUE-Identity ::=              SEQUENCE {
    c-RNTI                              RNTI-Value,
    physCellId                          PhysCellId,
    shortMAC-I                          ShortMAC-I
}

ReestablishmentCause ::=            ENUMERATED {reconfigurationFailure, handoverFailure, otherFailure, spare1}

-- TAG-RRCREESTABLISHMENTREQUEST-STOP
-- ASN1STOP





–	RRCReconfiguration
The RRCReconfiguration message is the command to modify an RRC connection. It may convey information for measurement configuration, mobility control, radio resource configuration (including RBs, MAC main configuration and physical channel configuration) and AS security configuration.
Signalling radio bearer: SRB1 or SRB3
RLC-SAP: AM
Logical channel: DCCH
Direction: Network to UE
RRCReconfiguration message
-- ASN1START
-- TAG-RRCRECONFIGURATION-START

RRCReconfiguration ::=                  SEQUENCE {
    rrc-TransactionIdentifier               RRC-TransactionIdentifier,
    criticalExtensions                      CHOICE {
        rrcReconfiguration                      RRCReconfiguration-IEs,
        criticalExtensionsFuture                SEQUENCE {}
    }
}

RRCReconfiguration-IEs ::=              SEQUENCE {
    radioBearerConfig                       RadioBearerConfig                                                      OPTIONAL, -- Need M
    secondaryCellGroup                      OCTET STRING (CONTAINING CellGroupConfig)                              OPTIONAL, -- Cond SCG
    measConfig                              MeasConfig                                                             OPTIONAL, -- Need M
    lateNonCriticalExtension                OCTET STRING (CONTAINING RRCReconfiguration-v15t0-IEs)                 OPTIONAL,
    nonCriticalExtension                    RRCReconfiguration-v1530-IEs                                           OPTIONAL
}

-- Regular non-critical extensions:
RRCReconfiguration-v1530-IEs ::=            SEQUENCE {
    masterCellGroup                         OCTET STRING (CONTAINING CellGroupConfig)                              OPTIONAL, -- Need M
    fullConfig                              ENUMERATED {true}                                                      OPTIONAL, -- Cond FullConfig
    dedicatedNAS-MessageList                SEQUENCE (SIZE(1..maxDRB)) OF DedicatedNAS-Message                     OPTIONAL, -- Cond nonHO
    masterKeyUpdate                         MasterKeyUpdate                                                        OPTIONAL, -- Cond MasterKeyChange
    dedicatedSIB1-Delivery                  OCTET STRING (CONTAINING SIB1)                                         OPTIONAL, -- Need N
    dedicatedSystemInformationDelivery      OCTET STRING (CONTAINING SystemInformation)                            OPTIONAL, -- Need N
    otherConfig                             OtherConfig                                                            OPTIONAL, -- Need M
    nonCriticalExtension                    RRCReconfiguration-v1540-IEs                                           OPTIONAL
}

RRCReconfiguration-v1540-IEs ::=        SEQUENCE {
    otherConfig-v1540                       OtherConfig-v1540                                                      OPTIONAL, -- Need M
    nonCriticalExtension                    RRCReconfiguration-v1560-IEs                                           OPTIONAL
}

RRCReconfiguration-v1560-IEs ::=         SEQUENCE {
    mrdc-SecondaryCellGroupConfig            SetupRelease { MRDC-SecondaryCellGroupConfig }                        OPTIONAL,   -- Need M
    radioBearerConfig2                       OCTET STRING (CONTAINING RadioBearerConfig)                           OPTIONAL,   -- Need M
    sk-Counter                               SK-Counter                                                            OPTIONAL,   -- Need N
    nonCriticalExtension                     RRCReconfiguration-v1610-IEs                                          OPTIONAL
}
RRCReconfiguration-v1610-IEs ::=        SEQUENCE {
    otherConfig-v1610                       OtherConfig-v1610                                                    OPTIONAL, -- Need M
    bap-Config-r16                          SetupRelease { BAP-Config-r16 }                                      OPTIONAL, -- Need M
    iab-IP-AddressConfigurationList-r16     IAB-IP-AddressConfigurationList-r16                                  OPTIONAL, -- Need M
    conditionalReconfiguration-r16          ConditionalReconfiguration-r16                                       OPTIONAL, -- Need M
    daps-SourceRelease-r16                  ENUMERATED{true}                                                     OPTIONAL, -- Need N
    t316-r16                                SetupRelease {T316-r16}                                              OPTIONAL, -- Need M
    needForGapsConfigNR-r16                 SetupRelease {NeedForGapsConfigNR-r16}                               OPTIONAL, -- Need M
    onDemandSIB-Request-r16                 SetupRelease { OnDemandSIB-Request-r16 }                             OPTIONAL, -- Need M
    dedicatedPosSysInfoDelivery-r16         OCTET STRING (CONTAINING PosSystemInformation-r16-IEs)               OPTIONAL, -- Need N
    sl-ConfigDedicatedNR-r16                SetupRelease {SL-ConfigDedicatedNR-r16}                              OPTIONAL, -- Need M
    sl-ConfigDedicatedEUTRA-Info-r16        SetupRelease {SL-ConfigDedicatedEUTRA-Info-r16}                      OPTIONAL, -- Need M
    targetCellSMTC-SCG-r16                  SSB-MTC                                                              OPTIONAL, -- Need S
    nonCriticalExtension                    RRCReconfiguration-v1700-IEs                                         OPTIONAL
}

RRCReconfiguration-v1700-IEs ::=        SEQUENCE {
    otherConfig-v1700                       OtherConfig-v1700                                              OPTIONAL, -- Need M
    sl-L2RelayUE-Config-r17                 SetupRelease { SL-L2RelayUE-Config-r17 }                       OPTIONAL, -- Need M
    sl-L2RemoteUE-Config-r17                SetupRelease { SL-L2RemoteUE-Config-r17 }                      OPTIONAL, -- Need M
    dedicatedPagingDelivery-r17             OCTET STRING (CONTAINING Paging)                               OPTIONAL, -- Cond PagingRelay
    needForGapNCSG-ConfigNR-r17             SetupRelease {NeedForGapNCSG-ConfigNR-r17}                     OPTIONAL, -- Need M
    needForGapNCSG-ConfigEUTRA-r17          SetupRelease {NeedForGapNCSG-ConfigEUTRA-r17}                  OPTIONAL, -- Need M
    musim-GapConfig-r17                     SetupRelease {MUSIM-GapConfig-r17}                             OPTIONAL, -- Need M
    ul-GapFR2-Config-r17                    SetupRelease { UL-GapFR2-Config-r17 }                          OPTIONAL, -- Need M
    scg-State-r17                           ENUMERATED { deactivated }                                     OPTIONAL, -- Need S
    appLayerMeasConfig-r17                  AppLayerMeasConfig-r17                                         OPTIONAL, -- Need M
    ue-TxTEG-RequestUL-TDOA-Config-r17      SetupRelease {UE-TxTEG-RequestUL-TDOA-Config-r17}              OPTIONAL, -- Need M
    nonCriticalExtension                    RRCReconfiguration-v1800-IEs                                   OPTIONAL
}

RRCReconfiguration-v1800-IEs ::=        SEQUENCE {
    needForInterruptionConfigNR-r18         ENUMERATED { disabled, enabled }                                   OPTIONAL, -- Need M
    aerial-Config-r18                           SetupRelease { Aerial-Config-r18 }                             OPTIONAL, -- Need M
    sl-IndirectPathAddChange-r18                SetupRelease { SL-IndirectPathAddChange-r18 }                  OPTIONAL, -- Need M
    n3c-IndirectPathAddChange-r18               SetupRelease { N3C-IndirectPathAddChange-r18 }                 OPTIONAL, -- Need M
    n3c-IndirectPathConfigRelay-r18             SetupRelease { N3C-IndirectPathConfigRelay-r18 }               OPTIONAL, -- Need M
    otherConfig-v1800                           OtherConfig-v1800                                              OPTIONAL, -- Need M
    srs-PosResourceSetAggBW-CombinationList-r18 SetupRelease { SRS-PosResourceSetAggBW-CombinationList-r18 }   OPTIONAL, -- Need M
    ltm-Config-r18                              SetupRelease {LTM-Config-r18}                                  OPTIONAL, -- Need M
    nonCriticalExtension                        RRCReconfiguration-v1830-IEs                                   OPTIONAL
}

RRCReconfiguration-v1830-IEs ::=        SEQUENCE {
    otherConfig-v1830                       OtherConfig-v1830                                                  OPTIONAL, -- Need M
    nonCriticalExtension                    SEQUENCE {}                                                        OPTIONAL
}

-- Late non-critical Rel-15 extensions:
RRCReconfiguration-v15t0-IEs ::=        SEQUENCE {
    -- Following field is only to be used for late REL-15 extensions
    lateNonCriticalExtension                OCTET STRING                                                       OPTIONAL,
    nonCriticalExtension                    RRCReconfiguration-v16k0-IEs                                       OPTIONAL
}

RRCReconfiguration-v16k0-IEs ::=        SEQUENCE {
    sl-ConfigDedicatedNR-v16k0              SetupRelease {SL-ConfigDedicatedNR-v16k0}                          OPTIONAL, -- Need M
    nonCriticalExtension                    SEQUENCE{}                                                         OPTIONAL
}

MRDC-SecondaryCellGroupConfig ::=       SEQUENCE {
    mrdc-ReleaseAndAdd                      ENUMERATED {true}                                                     OPTIONAL,   -- Need N
    mrdc-SecondaryCellGroup                 CHOICE {
        nr-SCG                                  OCTET STRING  (CONTAINING RRCReconfiguration),
        eutra-SCG                               OCTET STRING
    }
}

BAP-Config-r16 ::=                      SEQUENCE {
    bap-Address-r16                         BIT STRING (SIZE (10))                                    OPTIONAL, -- Need M
    defaultUL-BAP-RoutingID-r16             BAP-RoutingID-r16                                         OPTIONAL, -- Need M
    defaultUL-BH-RLC-Channel-r16            BH-RLC-ChannelID-r16                                      OPTIONAL, -- Need M
    flowControlFeedbackType-r16             ENUMERATED {perBH-RLC-Channel, perRoutingID, both}        OPTIONAL, -- Need R
    ...
}

MasterKeyUpdate ::=                 SEQUENCE {
    keySetChangeIndicator           BOOLEAN,
    nextHopChainingCount            NextHopChainingCount,
    nas-Container                   OCTET STRING                                                     OPTIONAL,    -- Cond securityNASC
    ...
}

OnDemandSIB-Request-r16 ::=                  SEQUENCE {
    onDemandSIB-RequestProhibitTimer-r16         ENUMERATED {s0, s0dot5, s1, s2, s5, s10, s20, s30}
}

T316-r16 ::=         ENUMERATED {ms50, ms100, ms200, ms300, ms400, ms500, ms600, ms1000, ms1500, ms2000}

IAB-IP-AddressConfigurationList-r16 ::= SEQUENCE {
    iab-IP-AddressToAddModList-r16      SEQUENCE (SIZE(1..maxIAB-IP-Address-r16)) OF IAB-IP-AddressConfiguration-r16 OPTIONAL, -- Need N
    iab-IP-AddressToReleaseList-r16     SEQUENCE (SIZE(1..maxIAB-IP-Address-r16)) OF IAB-IP-AddressIndex-r16         OPTIONAL, -- Need N
    ...
}

IAB-IP-AddressConfiguration-r16 ::=     SEQUENCE {
    iab-IP-AddressIndex-r16                 IAB-IP-AddressIndex-r16,
    iab-IP-Address-r16                      IAB-IP-Address-r16                                                OPTIONAL,  -- Need M
    iab-IP-Usage-r16                        IAB-IP-Usage-r16                                                  OPTIONAL,  -- Need M
    iab-donor-DU-BAP-Address-r16            BIT STRING (SIZE(10))                                             OPTIONAL,  -- Need M
...
}

SL-ConfigDedicatedEUTRA-Info-r16 ::=            SEQUENCE {
    sl-ConfigDedicatedEUTRA-r16                    OCTET STRING                                              OPTIONAL,  -- Need M
    sl-TimeOffsetEUTRA-List-r16                    SEQUENCE (SIZE (8)) OF SL-TimeOffsetEUTRA-r16             OPTIONAL    -- Need M
}

SL-TimeOffsetEUTRA-r16 ::=        ENUMERATED {ms0, ms0dot25, ms0dot5, ms0dot625, ms0dot75, ms1, ms1dot25, ms1dot5, ms1dot75,
                                              ms2, ms2dot5, ms3, ms4, ms5, ms6, ms8, ms10, ms20}

UE-TxTEG-RequestUL-TDOA-Config-r17 ::=  CHOICE {
    oneShot-r17                             NULL,
    periodicReporting-r17                   ENUMERATED { ms160, ms320, ms1280, ms2560, ms61440, ms81920, ms368640, ms737280 }
}

SRS-PosResourceSetAggBW-CombinationList-r18 ::= SEQUENCE (SIZE(1.. maxNrOfLinkedSRS-PosResSetComb-r18)) OF SRS-PosResourceSetLinkedForAggBW-List-r18

SRS-PosResourceSetLinkedForAggBW-List-r18 ::= SEQUENCE (SIZE(2..maxNrOfLinkedSRS-PosResourceSet-r18)) OF SRS-PosResourceSetLinkedForAggBW-r18

-- TAG-RRCRECONFIGURATION-STOP
-- ASN1STOP






–	RRCReconfigurationComplete
The RRCReconfigurationComplete message is used to confirm the successful completion of an RRC connection reconfiguration.
Signalling radio bearer: SRB1 or SRB3
RLC-SAP: AM
Logical channel: DCCH
Direction: UE to Network
RRCReconfigurationComplete message
-- ASN1START
-- TAG-RRCRECONFIGURATIONCOMPLETE-START

RRCReconfigurationComplete ::=              SEQUENCE {
    rrc-TransactionIdentifier                   RRC-TransactionIdentifier,
    criticalExtensions                          CHOICE {
        rrcReconfigurationComplete                  RRCReconfigurationComplete-IEs,
        criticalExtensionsFuture                    SEQUENCE {}
    }
}

RRCReconfigurationComplete-IEs ::=          SEQUENCE {
    lateNonCriticalExtension                    OCTET STRING                                                            OPTIONAL,
    nonCriticalExtension                        RRCReconfigurationComplete-v1530-IEs                                    OPTIONAL
}

RRCReconfigurationComplete-v1530-IEs ::=    SEQUENCE {
    uplinkTxDirectCurrentList                   UplinkTxDirectCurrentList                                               OPTIONAL,
    nonCriticalExtension                        RRCReconfigurationComplete-v1560-IEs                                    OPTIONAL
}

RRCReconfigurationComplete-v1560-IEs ::=    SEQUENCE {
    scg-Response                                CHOICE {
        nr-SCG-Response                             OCTET STRING (CONTAINING RRCReconfigurationComplete),
        eutra-SCG-Response                          OCTET STRING
    }                                                                                                                       OPTIONAL,
    nonCriticalExtension                        RRCReconfigurationComplete-v1610-IEs                                    OPTIONAL
}

RRCReconfigurationComplete-v1610-IEs ::=    SEQUENCE {
    ue-MeasurementsAvailable-r16                UE-MeasurementsAvailable-r16                                            OPTIONAL,
    needForGapsInfoNR-r16                       NeedForGapsInfoNR-r16                                                   OPTIONAL,
    nonCriticalExtension                        RRCReconfigurationComplete-v1640-IEs                                    OPTIONAL
}

RRCReconfigurationComplete-v1640-IEs ::=    SEQUENCE {
    uplinkTxDirectCurrentTwoCarrierList-r16     UplinkTxDirectCurrentTwoCarrierList-r16                                 OPTIONAL,
    nonCriticalExtension                        RRCReconfigurationComplete-v1700-IEs                                    OPTIONAL
}

RRCReconfigurationComplete-v1700-IEs ::=    SEQUENCE {
    needForGapNCSG-InfoNR-r17                   NeedForGapNCSG-InfoNR-r17                                               OPTIONAL,
    needForGapNCSG-InfoEUTRA-r17                NeedForGapNCSG-InfoEUTRA-r17                                            OPTIONAL,
    selectedCondRRCReconfig-r17                 CondReconfigId-r16                                                      OPTIONAL,
    nonCriticalExtension                        RRCReconfigurationComplete-v1720-IEs                                    OPTIONAL
}

RRCReconfigurationComplete-v1720-IEs ::=    SEQUENCE {
    uplinkTxDirectCurrentMoreCarrierList-r17    UplinkTxDirectCurrentMoreCarrierList-r17                                OPTIONAL,
    nonCriticalExtension                        RRCReconfigurationComplete-v1800-IEs                                    OPTIONAL
}

RRCReconfigurationComplete-v1800-IEs ::=    SEQUENCE {
    needForInterruptionInfoNR-r18               NeedForInterruptionInfoNR-r18                                           OPTIONAL,
    flightPathInfoAvailable-r18                 ENUMERATED {true}                                                       OPTIONAL,
    selectedPSCellForCHO-WithSCG-r18            SelectedPSCellForCHO-WithSCG-r18                                        OPTIONAL,
    selectedSK-Counter-r18                      SK-Counter                                                              OPTIONAL,
    measConfigReportAppLayerAvailable-r18       ENUMERATED {true}                                                       OPTIONAL,
    appliedLTM-CandidateId-r18                  LTM-CandidateId-r18                                                     OPTIONAL,
    nonCriticalExtension                        SEQUENCE {}                                                             OPTIONAL
}

-- TAG-RRCRECONFIGURATIONCOMPLETE-STOP
-- ASN1STOP



–	RRCReject
The RRCReject message is used to reject an RRC connection establishment or an RRC connection resumption.
Signalling radio bearer: SRB0
RLC-SAP: TM
Logical channel: CCCH
Direction: Network to UE
RRCReject message
-- ASN1START
-- TAG-RRCREJECT-START

RRCReject ::=                       SEQUENCE {
    criticalExtensions                  CHOICE {
        rrcReject                           RRCReject-IEs,
        criticalExtensionsFuture            SEQUENCE {}
    }
}

RRCReject-IEs ::=                   SEQUENCE {
    waitTime                            RejectWaitTime                                                          OPTIONAL,   -- Need N
    lateNonCriticalExtension            OCTET STRING                                                            OPTIONAL,
    nonCriticalExtension                SEQUENCE{}                                                              OPTIONAL
}

-- TAG-RRCREJECT-STOP
-- ASN1STOP



–	RRCRelease
The RRCRelease message is used to command the release of an RRC connection or the suspension of the RRC connection.
Signalling radio bearer: SRB1
RLC-SAP: AM
Logical channel: DCCH
Direction: Network to UE
RRCRelease message
-- ASN1START
-- TAG-RRCRELEASE-START

RRCRelease ::=                      SEQUENCE {
    rrc-TransactionIdentifier           RRC-TransactionIdentifier,
    criticalExtensions                  CHOICE {
        rrcRelease                          RRCRelease-IEs,
        criticalExtensionsFuture            SEQUENCE {}
    }
}

RRCRelease-IEs ::=                  SEQUENCE {
    redirectedCarrierInfo               RedirectedCarrierInfo                                                       OPTIONAL,   -- Need N
    cellReselectionPriorities           CellReselectionPriorities                                                   OPTIONAL,   -- Need R
    suspendConfig                       SuspendConfig                                                               OPTIONAL,   -- Need R
    deprioritisationReq                 SEQUENCE {
        deprioritisationType                ENUMERATED {frequency, nr},
        deprioritisationTimer               ENUMERATED {min5, min10, min15, min30}
    }                                                                                                               OPTIONAL,   -- Need N
    lateNonCriticalExtension                OCTET STRING                                                        OPTIONAL,
    nonCriticalExtension                    RRCRelease-v1540-IEs                                                OPTIONAL
}

RRCRelease-v1540-IEs ::=            SEQUENCE {
    waitTime                           RejectWaitTime                OPTIONAL, -- Need N
    nonCriticalExtension               RRCRelease-v1610-IEs          OPTIONAL
}

RRCRelease-v1610-IEs ::=            SEQUENCE {
    voiceFallbackIndication-r16        ENUMERATED {true}                             OPTIONAL, -- Need N
    measIdleConfig-r16                 SetupRelease {MeasIdleConfigDedicated-r16}    OPTIONAL, -- Need M
    nonCriticalExtension               RRCRelease-v1650-IEs                          OPTIONAL
}

RRCRelease-v1650-IEs ::=            SEQUENCE {
    mpsPriorityIndication-r16          ENUMERATED {true}                             OPTIONAL, -- Cond Redirection2
    nonCriticalExtension               RRCRelease-v1710-IEs                          OPTIONAL
}

RRCRelease-v1710-IEs ::=            SEQUENCE {
    noLastCellUpdate-r17                ENUMERATED {true}                            OPTIONAL,   -- Need S
    nonCriticalExtension                SEQUENCE {}                                  OPTIONAL
}

RedirectedCarrierInfo ::=           CHOICE {
    nr                                  CarrierInfoNR,
    eutra                               RedirectedCarrierInfo-EUTRA,
    ...
}

RedirectedCarrierInfo-EUTRA ::=     SEQUENCE {
    eutraFrequency                      ARFCN-ValueEUTRA,
    cnType                              ENUMERATED {epc,fiveGC}                                             OPTIONAL    -- Need N
}

CarrierInfoNR ::=                   SEQUENCE {
    carrierFreq                         ARFCN-ValueNR,
    ssbSubcarrierSpacing                SubcarrierSpacing,
    smtc                                SSB-MTC                                                             OPTIONAL,      -- Need S
    ...
}

SuspendConfig ::=                   SEQUENCE {
    fullI-RNTI                          I-RNTI-Value,
    shortI-RNTI                         ShortI-RNTI-Value,
    ran-PagingCycle                     PagingCycle,
    ran-NotificationAreaInfo            RAN-NotificationAreaInfo                                            OPTIONAL,   -- Need M
    t380                                PeriodicRNAU-TimerValue                                             OPTIONAL,   -- Need R
    nextHopChainingCount                NextHopChainingCount,
    ...,
    [[
    sl-UEIdentityRemote-r17             RNTI-Value                                                          OPTIONAL, -- Cond L2RemoteUE
    sdt-Config-r17                      SetupRelease { SDT-Config-r17 }                                     OPTIONAL,   -- Need M
    srs-PosRRC-Inactive-r17             SetupRelease { SRS-PosRRC-Inactive-r17 }                            OPTIONAL,   -- Need M
    ran-ExtendedPagingCycle-r17         ExtendedPagingCycle-r17                                             OPTIONAL    -- Cond RANPaging
    ]],
    [[
    ncd-SSB-RedCapInitialBWP-SDT-r17    SetupRelease {NonCellDefiningSSB-r17}                               OPTIONAL    -- Need M
    ]],
    [[
    resumeIndication-r18                ENUMERATED {true}                                                   OPTIONAL,   -- Need N
    srs-PosRRC-InactiveEnhanced-r18     SetupRelease { SRS-PosRRC-InactiveEnhanced-r18 }                    OPTIONAL,   -- Need M
    ran-ExtendedPagingCycleConfig-r18   ExtendedPagingCycleConfig-r18                                       OPTIONAL,  -- Cond RANPaging
    multicastConfigInactive-r18         SetupRelease { MulticastConfigInactive-r18 }                        OPTIONAL   -- Need M
    ]]
}

PeriodicRNAU-TimerValue ::=         ENUMERATED { min5, min10, min20, min30, min60, min120, min360, min720}

CellReselectionPriorities ::=       SEQUENCE {
    freqPriorityListEUTRA               FreqPriorityListEUTRA                                               OPTIONAL,       -- Need M
    freqPriorityListNR                  FreqPriorityListNR                                                  OPTIONAL,       -- Need M
    t320                                ENUMERATED {min5, min10, min20, min30, min60, min120, min180, spare1} OPTIONAL,     -- Need R
    ...,
    [[
    freqPriorityListDedicatedSlicing-r17 FreqPriorityListDedicatedSlicing-r17                               OPTIONAL        -- Need M
    ]]
}

PagingCycle ::=                     ENUMERATED {rf32, rf64, rf128, rf256}

FreqPriorityListEUTRA ::=           SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxFreq)) OF FreqPriorityEUTRA

FreqPriorityListNR ::=              SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxFreq)) OF FreqPriorityNR

FreqPriorityEUTRA ::=               SEQUENCE {
    carrierFreq                         ARFCN-ValueEUTRA,
    cellReselectionPriority             CellReselectionPriority,
    cellReselectionSubPriority          CellReselectionSubPriority                                          OPTIONAL        -- Need R
}

FreqPriorityNR ::=                  SEQUENCE {
    carrierFreq                         ARFCN-ValueNR,
    cellReselectionPriority             CellReselectionPriority,
    cellReselectionSubPriority          CellReselectionSubPriority                                          OPTIONAL        -- Need R
}

RAN-NotificationAreaInfo ::=        CHOICE {
    cellList                            PLMN-RAN-AreaCellList,
    ran-AreaConfigList                  PLMN-RAN-AreaConfigList,
    ...
}

PLMN-RAN-AreaCellList ::=           SEQUENCE (SIZE (1.. maxPLMNIdentities)) OF PLMN-RAN-AreaCell

PLMN-RAN-AreaCell ::=               SEQUENCE {
    plmn-Identity                       PLMN-Identity                                                       OPTIONAL,   -- Need S
    ran-AreaCells                       SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..32)) OF  CellIdentity
}

PLMN-RAN-AreaConfigList ::=         SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxPLMNIdentities)) OF PLMN-RAN-AreaConfig

PLMN-RAN-AreaConfig ::=             SEQUENCE {
    plmn-Identity                       PLMN-Identity                                                       OPTIONAL,   -- Need S
    ran-Area                            SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..16)) OF  RAN-AreaConfig
}

RAN-AreaConfig ::=                  SEQUENCE {
    trackingAreaCode                    TrackingAreaCode,
    ran-AreaCodeList                    SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..32)) OF  RAN-AreaCode                            OPTIONAL    -- Need R
}

SDT-Config-r17 ::=                  SEQUENCE {
    sdt-DRB-List-r17                    SEQUENCE (SIZE (0..maxDRB)) OF DRB-Identity                         OPTIONAL,   -- Need M
    sdt-SRB2-Indication-r17             ENUMERATED {allowed}                                                OPTIONAL,   -- Need R
    sdt-MAC-PHY-CG-Config-r17           SetupRelease {SDT-CG-Config-r17}                                    OPTIONAL,   -- Need M
    sdt-DRB-ContinueROHC-r17            ENUMERATED { cell, rna }                                            OPTIONAL    -- Need S
}

SDT-CG-Config-r17 ::= OCTET STRING (CONTAINING SDT-MAC-PHY-CG-Config-r17)

SDT-MAC-PHY-CG-Config-r17 ::=       SEQUENCE {
    -- CG-SDT specific configuration
    cg-SDT-ConfigLCH-RestrictionToAddModList-r17 SEQUENCE (SIZE(1..maxLC-ID)) OF  CG-SDT-ConfigLCH-Restriction-r17 OPTIONAL,   -- Need N
    cg-SDT-ConfigLCH-RestrictionToReleaseList-r17 SEQUENCE (SIZE(1..maxLC-ID)) OF  LogicalChannelIdentity  OPTIONAL,   -- Need N
    cg-SDT-ConfigInitialBWP-NUL-r17       SetupRelease {BWP-UplinkDedicatedSDT-r17}                     OPTIONAL,   -- Need M
    cg-SDT-ConfigInitialBWP-SUL-r17       SetupRelease {BWP-UplinkDedicatedSDT-r17}                     OPTIONAL,   -- Need M
    cg-SDT-ConfigInitialBWP-DL-r17        BWP-DownlinkDedicatedSDT-r17                                  OPTIONAL,   -- Need M
    cg-SDT-TimeAlignmentTimer-r17         TimeAlignmentTimer                                            OPTIONAL,   -- Need M
    cg-SDT-RSRP-ThresholdSSB-r17          RSRP-Range                                                    OPTIONAL,   -- Need M
    cg-SDT-TA-ValidationConfig-r17        SetupRelease { CG-SDT-TA-ValidationConfig-r17 }               OPTIONAL,   -- Need M
    cg-SDT-CS-RNTI-r17                    RNTI-Value                                                    OPTIONAL,   -- Need M
    ...,
    [[
    cg-SDT-ConfigLCH-RestrictionToAddModListExt-v1800 SEQUENCE (SIZE(1..maxLC-ID)) OF  CG-SDT-ConfigLCH-RestrictionExt-v1800
                                                                                                        OPTIONAL,   -- Need N
     cg-MT-SDT-MaxDurationToNextCG-Occasion-r18 ENUMERATED {
                                                ms10, ms100, sec1, sec10, sec60, sec100, sec300, sec600,
                                                sec1200, sec1800, sec3600,
                                                spare5, spare4, spare3, spare2, spare1}                 OPTIONAL    -- Need R
    ]]
}

CG-SDT-TA-ValidationConfig-r17 ::=  SEQUENCE {
    cg-SDT-RSRP-ChangeThreshold-r17     ENUMERATED { dB2, dB4, dB6, dB8, dB10, dB14, dB18, dB22,
                                            dB26, dB30, dB34, spare5, spare4, spare3, spare2, spare1}
}

BWP-DownlinkDedicatedSDT-r17 ::=    SEQUENCE {
    pdcch-Config-r17                    SetupRelease { PDCCH-Config }                                       OPTIONAL,   -- Need M
    pdsch-Config-r17                    SetupRelease { PDSCH-Config }                                       OPTIONAL,   -- Need M
   ...
}

BWP-UplinkDedicatedSDT-r17 ::=      SEQUENCE {
    pusch-Config-r17                    SetupRelease { PUSCH-Config }                                       OPTIONAL,   -- Need M
    configuredGrantConfigToAddModList-r17                 ConfiguredGrantConfigToAddModList-r16             OPTIONAL,   -- Need N
    configuredGrantConfigToReleaseList-r17                ConfiguredGrantConfigToReleaseList-r16            OPTIONAL,   -- Need N
   ...
}

CG-SDT-ConfigLCH-Restriction-r17 ::= SEQUENCE {
    logicalChannelIdentity-r17          LogicalChannelIdentity,
    configuredGrantType1Allowed-r17     ENUMERATED {true}                                                   OPTIONAL,   -- Need R
    allowedCG-List-r17                  SEQUENCE (SIZE (0.. maxNrofConfiguredGrantConfigMAC-1-r16)) OF ConfiguredGrantConfigIndexMAC-r16
                                                                                                            OPTIONAL    -- Need R
}

CG-SDT-ConfigLCH-RestrictionExt-v1800 ::= SEQUENCE {
    cg-SDT-MaxDurationToNextCG-Occasion-r18 ENUMERATED {
                                                 ms10, ms100, sec1, sec10, sec60, sec100, sec300, sec600,
                                                 sec1200, sec1800, sec3600,
                                                 spare5, spare4, spare3, spare2, spare1}                    OPTIONAL    -- Need R
}

SRS-PosRRC-Inactive-r17 ::= OCTET STRING (CONTAINING SRS-PosRRC-InactiveConfig-r17)

SRS-PosRRC-InactiveConfig-r17 ::=       SEQUENCE {
    srs-PosConfigNUL-r17                    SRS-PosConfig-r17                                                   OPTIONAL,    -- Need R
    srs-PosConfigSUL-r17                    SRS-PosConfig-r17                                                   OPTIONAL,    -- Need R
    bwp-NUL-r17                             BWP                                                                 OPTIONAL,    -- Need S
    bwp-SUL-r17                             BWP                                                                 OPTIONAL,    -- Need S
    inactivePosSRS-TimeAlignmentTimer-r17   TimeAlignmentTimer                                                  OPTIONAL,    -- Need M
    inactivePosSRS-RSRP-ChangeThreshold-r17 RSRP-ChangeThreshold-r17                                            OPTIONAL     -- Need M
}

RSRP-ChangeThreshold-r17 ::= ENUMERATED {dB4, dB6, dB8, dB10, dB14, dB18, dB22, dB26, dB30, dB34, spare6, spare5, spare4, spare3, spare2, spare1}

SRS-PosConfig-r17 ::=               SEQUENCE {
    srs-PosResourceSetToReleaseList-r17 SEQUENCE (SIZE(1..maxNrofSRS-PosResourceSets-r16)) OF SRS-PosResourceSetId-r16 OPTIONAL,-- Need N
    srs-PosResourceSetToAddModList-r17  SEQUENCE (SIZE(1..maxNrofSRS-PosResourceSets-r16)) OF SRS-PosResourceSet-r16  OPTIONAL,-- Need N
    srs-PosResourceToReleaseList-r17    SEQUENCE (SIZE(1..maxNrofSRS-PosResources-r16)) OF SRS-PosResourceId-r16      OPTIONAL,-- Need N
    srs-PosResourceToAddModList-r17     SEQUENCE (SIZE(1..maxNrofSRS-PosResources-r16)) OF SRS-PosResource-r16        OPTIONAL -- Need N
}

SRS-PosRRC-InactiveEnhanced-r18 ::= OCTET STRING (CONTAINING SRS-PosRRC-InactiveEnhancedConfig-r18)

SRS-PosRRC-InactiveEnhancedConfig-r18 ::=    SEQUENCE {
    srs-PosRRC-InactiveAggBW-ConfigList-r18      SetupRelease { SRS-PosRRC-InactiveAggBW-ConfigList-r18 }         OPTIONAL,  -- Need M
    srs-PosTx-Hopping-r18                        SetupRelease { SRS-PosTx-Hopping-r18 }                           OPTIONAL,  -- Need M
    srs-PosRRC-InactiveValidityAreaPreConfigList-r18 SetupRelease { SRS-PosRRC-InactiveValidityAreaPreConfigList-r18 } OPTIONAL, -- Need M
    srs-PosRRC-InactiveValidityAreaNonPreConfig-r18  SetupRelease { SRS-PosRRC-InactiveValidityAreaConfig-r18 }        OPTIONAL, -- Need M
    ...,
    [[
    srs-PosRRC-InactiveAggBW-AdditionalCarriers-r18  SetupRelease {SRS-PosRRC-InactiveAggBW-AdditionalCarriers-r18 } OPTIONAL  -- Need M
    ]]
}

SRS-PosRRC-InactiveAggBW-AdditionalCarriers-r18 ::= SEQUENCE{
    aggregatedPosSRS-CarrierList-r18       SEQUENCE (SIZE(1..maxNrOfLinkedSRS-CarriersInactive-1-r18)) OF SRS-PosConfigPerULCarrier-r18                     OPTIONAL, -- Need R
    ...
}

SRS-PosConfigPerULCarrier-r18 ::=         SEQUENCE{
    freqInfo-r18                              ARFCN-ValueNR,
    srs-PosConfig-r18                         SRS-PosConfig-r17,
    scs-SpecificCarrier-r18                   SCS-SpecificCarrier                                            OPTIONAL,   -- Need R
    bwp-r18                                   BWP                                                            OPTIONAL,   -- Need R
    ...
}

SRS-PosRRC-InactiveValidityAreaPreConfigList-r18  ::= SEQUENCE (SIZE(1..maxNrOfVA-r18)) OF SRS-PosRRC-InactiveValidityAreaConfig-r18

SRS-PosRRC-InactiveValidityAreaConfig-r18 ::= SEQUENCE {
    srs-PosConfigValidityArea-r18                 SEQUENCE (SIZE(1..maxNrOfCellsInVA-r18)) OF CellIdentity,
    srs-PosConfigNUL-r18                          SRS-PosConfig-r17                                              OPTIONAL,   -- Need R
    srs-PosConfigSUL-r18                          SRS-PosConfig-r17                                              OPTIONAL,   -- Need R
    bwp-NUL-r18                                   BWP                                                            OPTIONAL,   -- Need S
    bwp-SUL-r18                                   BWP                                                            OPTIONAL,   -- Need S
    areaValidityTA-Config-r18                     AreaValidityTA-Config-r18                                      OPTIONAL,   -- Need R
    ...,
    [[
    srs-PosConfigValidityAreaExt-v1830            SEQUENCE (SIZE(1..maxNrOfCellsInVA-Ext-r18)) OF CellIdentity   OPTIONAL    -- Need R
    ]],
    [[
    srs-PosRRC-InactiveAggBW-AdditionalCarriersPerVA-r18 SetupRelease {SRS-PosRRC-InactiveAggBW-AdditionalCarriers-r18 }
                                                                                                                 OPTIONAL,   -- Need M
    srs-PosRRC-InactiveAggBW-ConfigListPerVA-r18     SetupRelease {SRS-PosRRC-InactiveAggBW-ConfigList-r18 }     OPTIONAL    -- Need M
    ]]
}

AreaValidityTA-Config-r18 ::=             SEQUENCE {
    inactivePosSRS-ValidityAreaTAT-r18        ENUMERATED {ms1280, ms1920, ms2560, ms5120, ms10240, ms20480, ms40960, infinity},
    inactivePosSRS-ValidityAreaRSRP-r18       RSRP-ChangeThreshold-r17                                           OPTIONAL,   -- Need R
    autonomousTA-AdjustmentEnabled-r18        ENUMERATED {true}                                                  OPTIONAL    -- Need R
}

SRS-PosRRC-InactiveAggBW-ConfigList-r18 ::= SEQUENCE (SIZE(1..maxNrOfLinkedSRS-PosResSetCombInactive-r18)) OF
                                                SRS-InactivePosResourceSetLinkedForAggBW-List-r18

SRS-InactivePosResourceSetLinkedForAggBW-List-r18 ::=  SEQUENCE (SIZE (2..maxNrOfLinkedSRS-PosResourceSet-r18)) OF
                                                           SRS-PosResourceSetLinkedForAggBW-r18

ExtendedPagingCycle-r17 ::=         ENUMERATED {rf256, rf512, rf1024, spare1}

ExtendedPagingCycleConfig-r18 ::=  SEQUENCE {
    extendedPagingCycle-r18            ENUMERATED {hf2, hf4, hf8, hf16, hf32, hf64, hf128,hf256, hf512, hf1024,
                                                   spare6, spare5, spare4, spare3, spare2, spare1},
    pagingPTWLength-r18                ENUMERATED {ms1280, ms2560, ms3840, ms5120, ms6400, ms7680, ms8960, ms10240, ms11520,
                                                   ms12800, ms14080, ms15360, ms16640, ms17920, ms19200, ms20480, ms21760,
                                                   ms23040, ms24320, ms25600, ms26880, ms28160, ms29440, ms30720, ms32000,
                                                   ms33280, ms34560, ms35840, ms37120, ms38400, ms39680, ms40960}
}

MulticastConfigInactive-r18::=         SEQUENCE {
    inactivePTM-Config-r18                 OCTET STRING (CONTAINING MBSMulticastConfiguration-r18)     OPTIONAL, -- Need S
    inactiveMCCH-Config-r18                OCTET STRING (CONTAINING SystemInformation)                 OPTIONAL  -- Need N
}

-- TAG-RRCRELEASE-STOP
-- ASN1STOP

































–	RRCResume
The RRCResume message is used to resume the suspended RRC connection.
Signalling radio bearer: SRB1
RLC-SAP: AM
Logical channel: DCCH
Direction: Network to UE
RRCResume message
-- ASN1START
-- TAG-RRCRESUME-START

RRCResume ::=                       SEQUENCE {
    rrc-TransactionIdentifier           RRC-TransactionIdentifier,
    criticalExtensions                  CHOICE {
        rrcResume                           RRCResume-IEs,
        criticalExtensionsFuture            SEQUENCE {}
    }
}

RRCResume-IEs ::=                   SEQUENCE {
    radioBearerConfig                   RadioBearerConfig                                               OPTIONAL, -- Need M
    masterCellGroup                     OCTET STRING (CONTAINING CellGroupConfig)                       OPTIONAL, -- Need M
    measConfig                          MeasConfig                                                      OPTIONAL, -- Need M
    fullConfig                          ENUMERATED {true}                                               OPTIONAL, -- Need N
    lateNonCriticalExtension            OCTET STRING                                                    OPTIONAL,
    nonCriticalExtension                RRCResume-v1560-IEs                                             OPTIONAL
}

RRCResume-v1560-IEs ::=             SEQUENCE {
    radioBearerConfig2                  OCTET STRING (CONTAINING RadioBearerConfig)                     OPTIONAL, -- Need M
    sk-Counter                          SK-Counter                                                      OPTIONAL, -- Need N
    nonCriticalExtension                RRCResume-v1610-IEs                                             OPTIONAL
}

RRCResume-v1610-IEs ::=             SEQUENCE {
    idleModeMeasurementReq-r16          ENUMERATED {true}                                               OPTIONAL, -- Need N
    restoreMCG-SCells-r16               ENUMERATED {true}                                               OPTIONAL, -- Need N
    restoreSCG-r16                      ENUMERATED {true}                                               OPTIONAL, -- Need N
    mrdc-SecondaryCellGroup-r16         CHOICE {
        nr-SCG-r16                          OCTET STRING (CONTAINING RRCReconfiguration),
        eutra-SCG-r16                       OCTET STRING
    }                                                                                                   OPTIONAL, -- Cond RestoreSCG
    needForGapsConfigNR-r16             SetupRelease {NeedForGapsConfigNR-r16}                          OPTIONAL, -- Need M
    nonCriticalExtension                RRCResume-v1700-IEs                                             OPTIONAL
}

RRCResume-v1700-IEs ::=             SEQUENCE {
    sl-ConfigDedicatedNR-r17            SetupRelease {SL-ConfigDedicatedNR-r16}                         OPTIONAL, -- Cond L2RemoteUE
    sl-L2RemoteUE-Config-r17            SetupRelease {SL-L2RemoteUE-Config-r17}                         OPTIONAL, -- Cond L2RemoteUE
    needForGapNCSG-ConfigNR-r17         SetupRelease {NeedForGapNCSG-ConfigNR-r17}                      OPTIONAL, -- Need M
    needForGapNCSG-ConfigEUTRA-r17      SetupRelease {NeedForGapNCSG-ConfigEUTRA-r17}                   OPTIONAL, -- Need M
    scg-State-r17                       ENUMERATED {deactivated}                                        OPTIONAL, -- Need S
    appLayerMeasConfig-r17              AppLayerMeasConfig-r17                                          OPTIONAL, -- Need M
    nonCriticalExtension                RRCResume-v1800-IEs                                             OPTIONAL
}

RRCResume-v1800-IEs ::=             SEQUENCE {
    needForInterruptionConfigNR-r18     ENUMERATED { disabled, enabled }                                OPTIONAL, -- Need M
    reselectionMeasurementReq-r18       ENUMERATED { true }                                             OPTIONAL, -- Need N
    validatedMeasurementsReq-r18        ENUMERATED { true }                                             OPTIONAL, -- Need N
    nonCriticalExtension                SEQUENCE {}                                                     OPTIONAL
}

-- TAG-RRCRESUME-STOP
-- ASN1STOP





–	RRCResumeComplete
The RRCResumeComplete message is used to confirm the successful completion of an RRC connection resumption.
Signalling radio bearer: SRB1
RLC-SAP: AM
Logical channel: DCCH
Direction: UE to Network
RRCResumeComplete message
-- ASN1START
-- TAG-RRCRESUMECOMPLETE-START

RRCResumeComplete ::=                   SEQUENCE {
    rrc-TransactionIdentifier               RRC-TransactionIdentifier,
    criticalExtensions                      CHOICE {
        rrcResumeComplete                       RRCResumeComplete-IEs,
        criticalExtensionsFuture                SEQUENCE {}
    }
}

RRCResumeComplete-IEs ::=               SEQUENCE {
    dedicatedNAS-Message                    DedicatedNAS-Message                                                    OPTIONAL,
    selectedPLMN-Identity                   INTEGER (1..maxPLMN)                                                    OPTIONAL,
    uplinkTxDirectCurrentList               UplinkTxDirectCurrentList                                               OPTIONAL,
    lateNonCriticalExtension                OCTET STRING                                                            OPTIONAL,
    nonCriticalExtension                    RRCResumeComplete-v1610-IEs                                             OPTIONAL
}

RRCResumeComplete-v1610-IEs ::=         SEQUENCE {
    idleMeasAvailable-r16                   ENUMERATED {true}                                                       OPTIONAL,
    measResultIdleEUTRA-r16                 MeasResultIdleEUTRA-r16                                                 OPTIONAL,
    measResultIdleNR-r16                    MeasResultIdleNR-r16                                                    OPTIONAL,
    scg-Response-r16                        CHOICE {
        nr-SCG-Response                         OCTET STRING (CONTAINING RRCReconfigurationComplete),
        eutra-SCG-Response                      OCTET STRING
    }                                                                                                               OPTIONAL,
    ue-MeasurementsAvailable-r16            UE-MeasurementsAvailable-r16                                            OPTIONAL,
    mobilityHistoryAvail-r16                ENUMERATED {true}                                                       OPTIONAL,
    mobilityState-r16                       ENUMERATED {normal, medium, high, spare}                                OPTIONAL,
    needForGapsInfoNR-r16                   NeedForGapsInfoNR-r16                                                   OPTIONAL,
    nonCriticalExtension                    RRCResumeComplete-v1640-IEs                                             OPTIONAL
}

RRCResumeComplete-v1640-IEs ::=         SEQUENCE {
    uplinkTxDirectCurrentTwoCarrierList-r16 UplinkTxDirectCurrentTwoCarrierList-r16                                 OPTIONAL,
    nonCriticalExtension                    RRCResumeComplete-v1700-IEs                                             OPTIONAL
}

RRCResumeComplete-v1700-IEs ::=         SEQUENCE {
    needForGapNCSG-InfoNR-r17               NeedForGapNCSG-InfoNR-r17                                               OPTIONAL,
    needForGapNCSG-InfoEUTRA-r17            NeedForGapNCSG-InfoEUTRA-r17                                            OPTIONAL,
    nonCriticalExtension                    RRCResumeComplete-v1720-IEs                                             OPTIONAL
}

RRCResumeComplete-v1720-IEs ::=         SEQUENCE {
    uplinkTxDirectCurrentMoreCarrierList-r17 UplinkTxDirectCurrentMoreCarrierList-r17                               OPTIONAL,
    nonCriticalExtension                     RRCResumeComplete-v1800-IEs                                            OPTIONAL
}

RRCResumeComplete-v1800-IEs ::=         SEQUENCE {
    needForInterruptionInfoNR-r18           NeedForInterruptionInfoNR-r18                                           OPTIONAL,
    musim-CapRestrictionInd-r18             ENUMERATED {true}                                                       OPTIONAL,
    flightPathInfoAvailable-r18             ENUMERATED {true}                                                       OPTIONAL,
    measConfigReportAppLayerAvailable-r18   ENUMERATED {true}                                                       OPTIONAL,
    measResultReselectionNR-r18             MeasResultIdleNR-r16                                                    OPTIONAL,
    reselectionMeasAvailable-r18            ENUMERATED {true}                                                       OPTIONAL,
    nonCriticalExtension                    SEQUENCE {}                                                             OPTIONAL
}

-- TAG-RRCRESUMECOMPLETE-STOP
-- ASN1STOP



–	RRCResumeRequest
The RRCResumeRequest message is used to request the resumption of a suspended RRC connection or perform an RNA update.
Signalling radio bearer: SRB0
RLC-SAP: TM
Logical channel: CCCH
Direction: UE to Network
RRCResumeRequest message
-- ASN1START
-- TAG-RRCRESUMEREQUEST-START

RRCResumeRequest ::=            SEQUENCE {
        rrcResumeRequest            RRCResumeRequest-IEs
}

RRCResumeRequest-IEs ::=        SEQUENCE {
    resumeIdentity                  ShortI-RNTI-Value,
    resumeMAC-I                     BIT STRING (SIZE (16)),
    resumeCause                     ResumeCause,
    spare                           BIT STRING (SIZE (1))
}

-- TAG-RRCRESUMEREQUEST-STOP
-- ASN1STOP



–	RRCResumeRequest1
The RRCResumeRequest1 message is used to request the resumption of a suspended RRC connection or perform an RNA update.
Signalling radio bearer: SRB0
RLC-SAP: TM
Logical channel: CCCH1
Direction: UE to Network
RRCResumeRequest1 message
-- ASN1START
-- TAG-RRCRESUMEREQUEST1-START

RRCResumeRequest1 ::=         SEQUENCE {
       rrcResumeRequest1          RRCResumeRequest1-IEs
}

RRCResumeRequest1-IEs ::=    SEQUENCE {
    resumeIdentity               I-RNTI-Value,
    resumeMAC-I                  BIT STRING (SIZE (16)),
    resumeCause                  ResumeCause,
    spare                        BIT STRING (SIZE (1))
}

-- TAG-RRCRESUMEREQUEST1-STOP
-- ASN1STOP



–	RRCSetup
The RRCSetup message is used to establish SRB1.
Signalling radio bearer: SRB0
RLC-SAP: TM
Logical channel: CCCH
Direction: Network to UE
RRCSetup message
-- ASN1START
-- TAG-RRCSETUP-START

RRCSetup ::=                        SEQUENCE {
    rrc-TransactionIdentifier           RRC-TransactionIdentifier,
    criticalExtensions                  CHOICE {
        rrcSetup                            RRCSetup-IEs,
        criticalExtensionsFuture            SEQUENCE {}
    }
}

RRCSetup-IEs ::=                    SEQUENCE {
    radioBearerConfig                   RadioBearerConfig,
    masterCellGroup                     OCTET STRING (CONTAINING CellGroupConfig),
    lateNonCriticalExtension            OCTET STRING                                                            OPTIONAL,
    nonCriticalExtension                RRCSetup-v1700-IEs                                                      OPTIONAL
}

RRCSetup-v1700-IEs ::=              SEQUENCE {
    sl-ConfigDedicatedNR-r17            SL-ConfigDedicatedNR-r16                           OPTIONAL, -- Cond L2RemoteUE
    sl-L2RemoteUE-Config-r17            SL-L2RemoteUE-Config-r17                           OPTIONAL, -- Cond L2RemoteUE
    nonCriticalExtension                SEQUENCE {}                                        OPTIONAL
}

-- TAG-RRCSETUP-STOP
-- ASN1STOP





–	RRCSetupComplete
The RRCSetupComplete message is used to confirm the successful completion of an RRC connection establishment.
Signalling radio bearer: SRB1
RLC-SAP: AM
Logical channel: DCCH
Direction: UE to Network
RRCSetupComplete message
-- ASN1START
-- TAG-RRCSETUPCOMPLETE-START

RRCSetupComplete ::=                SEQUENCE {
    rrc-TransactionIdentifier           RRC-TransactionIdentifier,
    criticalExtensions                  CHOICE {
        rrcSetupComplete                    RRCSetupComplete-IEs,
        criticalExtensionsFuture            SEQUENCE {}
    }
}

RRCSetupComplete-IEs ::=            SEQUENCE {
    selectedPLMN-Identity               INTEGER (1..maxPLMN),
    registeredAMF                       RegisteredAMF                                   OPTIONAL,
    guami-Type                          ENUMERATED {native, mapped}                     OPTIONAL,
    s-NSSAI-List                        SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxNrofS-NSSAI)) OF S-NSSAI  OPTIONAL,
    dedicatedNAS-Message                DedicatedNAS-Message,
    ng-5G-S-TMSI-Value                  CHOICE {
        ng-5G-S-TMSI                        NG-5G-S-TMSI,
        ng-5G-S-TMSI-Part2                  BIT STRING (SIZE (9))
    }                                                                                   OPTIONAL,
    lateNonCriticalExtension            OCTET STRING (CONTAINING RRCSetupComplete-v15s0-IEs)  OPTIONAL,
    nonCriticalExtension                RRCSetupComplete-v1610-IEs                      OPTIONAL
}

-- Regular non-critical extensions:
RRCSetupComplete-v1610-IEs ::=      SEQUENCE {
    iab-NodeIndication-r16              ENUMERATED {true}                               OPTIONAL,
    idleMeasAvailable-r16               ENUMERATED {true}                               OPTIONAL,
    ue-MeasurementsAvailable-r16        UE-MeasurementsAvailable-r16                    OPTIONAL,
    mobilityHistoryAvail-r16            ENUMERATED {true}                               OPTIONAL,
    mobilityState-r16                   ENUMERATED {normal, medium, high, spare}        OPTIONAL,
    nonCriticalExtension                RRCSetupComplete-v1690-IEs                      OPTIONAL
}

RRCSetupComplete-v1690-IEs ::=      SEQUENCE {
    ul-RRC-Segmentation-r16             ENUMERATED {true}                               OPTIONAL,
    nonCriticalExtension                RRCSetupComplete-v1700-IEs                      OPTIONAL
}

RRCSetupComplete-v1700-IEs ::=      SEQUENCE {
    onboardingRequest-r17               ENUMERATED {true}                               OPTIONAL,
    nonCriticalExtension                RRCSetupComplete-v1800-IEs                      OPTIONAL
}

RRCSetupComplete-v1800-IEs ::=      SEQUENCE {
    ncr-NodeIndication-r18              ENUMERATED {true}                               OPTIONAL,
    musim-CapRestrictionInd-r18         ENUMERATED {true}                               OPTIONAL,
    flightPathInfoAvailable-r18         ENUMERATED {true}                               OPTIONAL,
    measConfigReportAppLayerAvailable-r18 ENUMERATED {true}                             OPTIONAL,
    mobileIAB-NodeIndication-r18        ENUMERATED {true}                               OPTIONAL,
    reselectionMeasAvailable-r18        ENUMERATED {true}                               OPTIONAL,
    nonCriticalExtension                SEQUENCE{}                                      OPTIONAL
}

-- Late non-critical extensions:
RRCSetupComplete-v15s0-IEs ::=      SEQUENCE {
-- Following field is only for REL-15 late non-critical extensions
    lateNonCriticalExtension            OCTET STRING                                    OPTIONAL,
    nonCriticalExtension                RRCSetupComplete-v16j0-IEs                      OPTIONAL
}

RRCSetupComplete-v16j0-IEs ::=      SEQUENCE {
-- Following field is only for REL-16 late non-critical extensions
    lateNonCriticalExtension            OCTET STRING                                    OPTIONAL,
    nonCriticalExtension                RRCSetupComplete-v17b0-IEs                      OPTIONAL
}

RRCSetupComplete-v17b0-IEs ::=      SEQUENCE {
    ul-RRC-MaxCapaSegments-r17          ENUMERATED {true}                               OPTIONAL,
    nonCriticalExtension                SEQUENCE{}                                      OPTIONAL
}

RegisteredAMF ::=                   SEQUENCE {
    plmn-Identity                       PLMN-Identity                                   OPTIONAL,
    amf-Identifier                      AMF-Identifier
}

-- TAG-RRCSETUPCOMPLETE-STOP
-- ASN1STOP



–	RRCSetupRequest
The RRCSetupRequest message is used to request the establishment of an RRC connection.
Signalling radio bearer: SRB0
RLC-SAP: TM
Logical channel: CCCH
Direction: UE to Network
RRCSetupRequest message
-- ASN1START
-- TAG-RRCSETUPREQUEST-START

RRCSetupRequest ::=                 SEQUENCE {
    rrcSetupRequest                     RRCSetupRequest-IEs
}

RRCSetupRequest-IEs ::=             SEQUENCE {
    ue-Identity                         InitialUE-Identity,
    establishmentCause                  EstablishmentCause,
    spare                               BIT STRING (SIZE (1))
}

InitialUE-Identity ::=              CHOICE {
    ng-5G-S-TMSI-Part1                  BIT STRING (SIZE (39)),
    randomValue                         BIT STRING (SIZE (39))
}

EstablishmentCause ::=              ENUMERATED {
                                        emergency, highPriorityAccess, mt-Access, mo-Signalling,
                                        mo-Data, mo-VoiceCall, mo-VideoCall, mo-SMS, mps-PriorityAccess, mcs-PriorityAccess,
                                        spare6, spare5, spare4, spare3, spare2, spare1}

-- TAG-RRCSETUPREQUEST-STOP
-- ASN1STOP





–	RRCSystemInfoRequest
The RRCSystemInfoRequest message is used to request SI message(s) required by the UE as specified in clause 5.2.2.3.3 and 5.2.2.3.3a.
Signalling radio bearer: SRB0
RLC-SAP: TM
Logical channel: CCCH
Direction: UE to Network
RRCSystemInfoRequest message
-- ASN1START
-- TAG-RRCSYSTEMINFOREQUEST-START

RRCSystemInfoRequest ::=            SEQUENCE {
    criticalExtensions                  CHOICE {
        rrcSystemInfoRequest                RRCSystemInfoRequest-IEs,
        criticalExtensionsFuture-r16        CHOICE {
            rrcPosSystemInfoRequest-r16         RRC-PosSystemInfoRequest-r16-IEs,
            criticalExtensionsFuture            SEQUENCE {}
        }
    }
}

RRCSystemInfoRequest-IEs ::=    SEQUENCE {
    requested-SI-List                   BIT STRING (SIZE (maxSI-Message)),  --32bits
    spare                               BIT STRING (SIZE (12))
}

RRC-PosSystemInfoRequest-r16-IEs ::=  SEQUENCE {
    requestedPosSI-List                   BIT STRING (SIZE (maxSI-Message)),  --32bits
    spare                                 BIT STRING (SIZE (11))
}

-- TAG-RRCSYSTEMINFOREQUEST-STOP
-- ASN1STOP



–	SCGFailureInformation
The SCGFailureInformation message is used to provide information regarding NR SCG failures detected by the UE.
Signalling radio bearer: SRB1
RLC-SAP: AM
Logical channel: DCCH
Direction: UE to Network
SCGFailureInformation message
-- ASN1START
-- TAG-SCGFAILUREINFORMATION-START

SCGFailureInformation ::=                SEQUENCE {
    criticalExtensions                       CHOICE {
        scgFailureInformation                    SCGFailureInformation-IEs,
        criticalExtensionsFuture                 SEQUENCE {}
    }
}

SCGFailureInformation-IEs ::=            SEQUENCE {
    failureReportSCG                         FailureReportSCG                    OPTIONAL,
    nonCriticalExtension                     SCGFailureInformation-v1590-IEs     OPTIONAL
}

SCGFailureInformation-v1590-IEs ::=      SEQUENCE {
    lateNonCriticalExtension                 OCTET STRING                        OPTIONAL,
    nonCriticalExtension                     SEQUENCE {}                         OPTIONAL
}

FailureReportSCG ::=                     SEQUENCE {
    failureType                              ENUMERATED {
                                                 t310-Expiry, randomAccessProblem,
                                                 rlc-MaxNumRetx,
                                                 synchReconfigFailureSCG, scg-ReconfigFailure,
                                                 srb3-IntegrityFailure, other-r16, spare1},
    measResultFreqList                       MeasResultFreqList                                    OPTIONAL,
    measResultSCG-Failure                    OCTET STRING (CONTAINING MeasResultSCG-Failure)       OPTIONAL,
    ...,
    [[
    locationInfo-r16                         LocationInfo-r16                                      OPTIONAL,
    failureType-v1610                        ENUMERATED {scg-lbtFailure-r16, beamFailureRecoveryFailure-r16,
                                                        t312-Expiry-r16, bh-RLF-r16, beamFailure-r17, spare3, spare2, spare1} OPTIONAL
    ]],
    [[
    previousPSCellId-r17                 SEQUENCE {
        physCellId-r17                       PhysCellId,
        carrierFreq-r17                      ARFCN-ValueNR
    }                                                             OPTIONAL,
    failedPSCellId-r17                   SEQUENCE {
        physCellId-r17                       PhysCellId,
        carrierFreq-r17                      ARFCN-ValueNR
     }                                                            OPTIONAL,
    timeSCGFailure-r17                   INTEGER (0..1023)        OPTIONAL,
    perRAInfoList-r17                    PerRAInfoList-r16          OPTIONAL
    ]],
    [[
    perRAInfoList-v17b0                  PerRAInfoList-v1660      OPTIONAL
    ]],
    [[
    perRAInfoList-v1840                  PerRAInfoList-v1800      OPTIONAL
    ]]
}

MeasResultFreqList ::=                   SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxFreq)) OF MeasResult2NR


-- TAG-SCGFAILUREINFORMATION-STOP
-- ASN1STOP



–	SCGFailureInformationEUTRA
The SCGFailureInformationEUTRA message is used to provide information regarding E-UTRA SCG failures detected by the UE.
Signalling radio bearer: SRB1
RLC-SAP: AM
Logical channel: DCCH
Direction: UE to Network
SCGFailureInformationEUTRA message
-- ASN1START
-- TAG-SCGFAILUREINFORMATIONEUTRA-START

SCGFailureInformationEUTRA ::=                SEQUENCE {
    criticalExtensions                                CHOICE {
        scgFailureInformationEUTRA                       SCGFailureInformationEUTRA-IEs,
        criticalExtensionsFuture                          SEQUENCE {}
    }
}

SCGFailureInformationEUTRA-IEs ::=           SEQUENCE {
    failureReportSCG-EUTRA                           FailureReportSCG-EUTRA                      OPTIONAL,
    nonCriticalExtension                              SCGFailureInformationEUTRA-v1590-IEs                                    OPTIONAL
}

SCGFailureInformationEUTRA-v1590-IEs ::=  SEQUENCE {
    lateNonCriticalExtension                  OCTET STRING            OPTIONAL,
    nonCriticalExtension                               SEQUENCE {}                  OPTIONAL
}

FailureReportSCG-EUTRA ::=                       SEQUENCE {
    failureType                                           ENUMERATED {
                                                                       t313-Expiry, randomAccessProblem,rlc-MaxNumRetx,
                                                                          scg-ChangeFailure, spare4,
                                                                          spare3, spare2, spare1},
    measResultFreqListMRDC                             MeasResultFreqListFailMRDC                                                   OPTIONAL,
    measResultSCG-FailureMRDC                         OCTET STRING                                                         OPTIONAL,
    ...,
    [[
    locationInfo-r16                                    LocationInfo-r16                                                         OPTIONAL
    ]]
}

MeasResultFreqListFailMRDC ::=      SEQUENCE (SIZE (1.. maxFreq)) OF MeasResult2EUTRA

-- TAG-SCGFAILUREINFORMATIONEUTRA-STOP
-- ASN1STOP



–	SecurityModeCommand
The SecurityModeCommand message is used to command the activation of AS security.
Signalling radio bearer: SRB1
RLC-SAP: AM
Logical channel: DCCH
Direction: Network to UE
SecurityModeCommand message
-- ASN1START
-- TAG-SECURITYMODECOMMAND-START

SecurityModeCommand ::=             SEQUENCE {
    rrc-TransactionIdentifier           RRC-TransactionIdentifier,
    criticalExtensions                  CHOICE {
        securityModeCommand                 SecurityModeCommand-IEs,
        criticalExtensionsFuture            SEQUENCE {}
    }
}

SecurityModeCommand-IEs ::=         SEQUENCE {
    securityConfigSMC                   SecurityConfigSMC,

    lateNonCriticalExtension            OCTET STRING                                                            OPTIONAL,
    nonCriticalExtension                SEQUENCE{}                                                              OPTIONAL
}

SecurityConfigSMC ::=               SEQUENCE {
    securityAlgorithmConfig             SecurityAlgorithmConfig,
    ...
}

-- TAG-SECURITYMODECOMMAND-STOP
-- ASN1STOP

–	SecurityModeComplete
The SecurityModeComplete message is used to confirm the successful completion of a security mode command.
Signalling radio bearer: SRB1
RLC-SAP: AM
Logical channel: DCCH
Direction: UE to Network
SecurityModeComplete message
-- ASN1START
-- TAG-SECURITYMODECOMPLETE-START

SecurityModeComplete ::=            SEQUENCE {
    rrc-TransactionIdentifier           RRC-TransactionIdentifier,
    criticalExtensions                  CHOICE {
        securityModeComplete                SecurityModeComplete-IEs,
        criticalExtensionsFuture            SEQUENCE {}
    }
}

SecurityModeComplete-IEs ::=        SEQUENCE {
    lateNonCriticalExtension            OCTET STRING                                                            OPTIONAL,
    nonCriticalExtension                SEQUENCE{}                                                              OPTIONAL
}

-- TAG-SECURITYMODECOMPLETE-STOP
-- ASN1STOP

–	SecurityModeFailure
The SecurityModeFailure message is used to indicate an unsuccessful completion of a security mode command.
Signalling radio bearer: SRB1
RLC-SAP: AM
Logical channel: DCCH
Direction: UE to Network
SecurityModeFailure message
-- ASN1START
-- TAG-SECURITYMODEFAILURE-START

SecurityModeFailure ::=             SEQUENCE {
    rrc-TransactionIdentifier           RRC-TransactionIdentifier,
    criticalExtensions                  CHOICE {
        securityModeFailure                 SecurityModeFailure-IEs,
        criticalExtensionsFuture            SEQUENCE {}
    }
}

SecurityModeFailure-IEs ::=         SEQUENCE {
    lateNonCriticalExtension            OCTET STRING                                                            OPTIONAL,
    nonCriticalExtension                SEQUENCE{}                                                              OPTIONAL
}

-- TAG-SECURITYMODEFAILURE-STOP
-- ASN1STOP

–	SIB1
SIB1 contains information relevant when evaluating if a UE is allowed to access a cell and defines the scheduling of other system information. It also contains radio resource configuration information that is common for all UEs and barring information applied to the unified access control.
Signalling radio bearer: N/A
RLC-SAP: TM
Logical channels: BCCH
Direction: Network to UE
SIB1 message
-- ASN1START
-- TAG-SIB1-START

SIB1 ::=        SEQUENCE {
    cellSelectionInfo                   SEQUENCE {
        q-RxLevMin                          Q-RxLevMin,
        q-RxLevMinOffset                    INTEGER (1..8)                                              OPTIONAL,   -- Need S
        q-RxLevMinSUL                       Q-RxLevMin                                                  OPTIONAL,   -- Need R
        q-QualMin                           Q-QualMin                                                   OPTIONAL,   -- Need S
        q-QualMinOffset                     INTEGER (1..8)                                              OPTIONAL    -- Need S
    }                                                                                                   OPTIONAL,   -- Cond Standalone
    cellAccessRelatedInfo               CellAccessRelatedInfo,
    connEstFailureControl               ConnEstFailureControl                                           OPTIONAL,   -- Need R
    si-SchedulingInfo                   SI-SchedulingInfo                                               OPTIONAL,   -- Need R
    servingCellConfigCommon             ServingCellConfigCommonSIB                                      OPTIONAL,   -- Need R
    ims-EmergencySupport                ENUMERATED {true}                                               OPTIONAL,   -- Need R
    eCallOverIMS-Support                ENUMERATED {true}                                               OPTIONAL,   -- Need R
    ue-TimersAndConstants               UE-TimersAndConstants                                           OPTIONAL,   -- Need R
    uac-BarringInfo                     SEQUENCE {
        uac-BarringForCommon                UAC-BarringPerCatList                                           OPTIONAL,   -- Need S
        uac-BarringPerPLMN-List             UAC-BarringPerPLMN-List                                         OPTIONAL,   -- Need S
        uac-BarringInfoSetList              UAC-BarringInfoSetList,
        uac-AccessCategory1-SelectionAssistanceInfo CHOICE {
            plmnCommon                           UAC-AccessCategory1-SelectionAssistanceInfo,
            individualPLMNList                   SEQUENCE (SIZE (2..maxPLMN)) OF UAC-AccessCategory1-SelectionAssistanceInfo
        }                                                                                                   OPTIONAL    -- Need S
    }                                                                                                   OPTIONAL,   -- Need R
    useFullResumeID                     ENUMERATED {true}                                               OPTIONAL,   -- Need R
    lateNonCriticalExtension            OCTET STRING                                                    OPTIONAL,
    nonCriticalExtension                SIB1-v1610-IEs                                                  OPTIONAL
}

SIB1-v1610-IEs ::=               SEQUENCE {
    idleModeMeasurementsEUTRA-r16    ENUMERATED{true}                                                   OPTIONAL,  -- Need R
    idleModeMeasurementsNR-r16       ENUMERATED{true}                                                   OPTIONAL,  -- Need R
    posSI-SchedulingInfo-r16         PosSI-SchedulingInfo-r16                                           OPTIONAL,  -- Need R
    nonCriticalExtension             SIB1-v1630-IEs                                                     OPTIONAL
}

SIB1-v1630-IEs ::=               SEQUENCE {
    uac-BarringInfo-v1630            SEQUENCE {
        uac-AC1-SelectAssistInfo-r16     SEQUENCE (SIZE (2..maxPLMN)) OF UAC-AC1-SelectAssistInfo-r16
    }                                                                                                   OPTIONAL,  -- Need R
    nonCriticalExtension             SIB1-v1700-IEs                                                     OPTIONAL
}

SIB1-v1700-IEs ::=               SEQUENCE {
    hsdn-Cell-r17                        ENUMERATED {true}                                              OPTIONAL,  -- Need R
    uac-BarringInfo-v1700                SEQUENCE {
        uac-BarringInfoSetList-v1700         UAC-BarringInfoSetList-v1700
    }                                                                                                   OPTIONAL,  -- Cond MINT
    sdt-ConfigCommon-r17                 SDT-ConfigCommonSIB-r17                                        OPTIONAL,  -- Need R
    redCap-ConfigCommon-r17              RedCap-ConfigCommonSIB-r17                                     OPTIONAL,  -- Need R
    featurePriorities-r17        SEQUENCE {
        redCapPriority-r17           FeaturePriority-r17                                                OPTIONAL,  -- Need R
        slicingPriority-r17          FeaturePriority-r17                                                OPTIONAL,  -- Need R
        msg3-Repetitions-Priority-r17 FeaturePriority-r17                                               OPTIONAL,  -- Need R
        sdt-Priority-r17             FeaturePriority-r17                                                OPTIONAL   -- Need R
    }                                                                                                   OPTIONAL,  -- Need R
    si-SchedulingInfo-v1700      SI-SchedulingInfo-v1700                                                OPTIONAL,  -- Need R
    hyperSFN-r17                 BIT STRING (SIZE (10))                                                 OPTIONAL,  -- Need R
    eDRX-AllowedIdle-r17         ENUMERATED {true}                                                      OPTIONAL,  -- Need R
    eDRX-AllowedInactive-r17     ENUMERATED {true}                                                      OPTIONAL,  -- Cond EDRX-RC
    intraFreqReselectionRedCap-r17 ENUMERATED {allowed, notAllowed}                                     OPTIONAL,  -- Need S
    cellBarredNTN-r17            ENUMERATED {barred, notBarred}                                         OPTIONAL,  -- Need S
    nonCriticalExtension         SIB1-v1740-IEs                                                         OPTIONAL
}

SIB1-v1740-IEs ::=               SEQUENCE {
    si-SchedulingInfo-v1740          SI-SchedulingInfo-v1740                                            OPTIONAL,  -- Need R
    nonCriticalExtension             SIB1-v1800-IEs                                                     OPTIONAL
}

SIB1-v1800-IEs ::=               SEQUENCE {
    ncr-Support-r18                  ENUMERATED {true}                                                  OPTIONAL,  -- Need S
    mt-SDT-ConfigCommonSIB-r18       MT-SDT-ConfigCommonSIB-r18                                         OPTIONAL,  -- Need R
    musim-CapRestrictionAllowed-r18  ENUMERATED {true}                                                  OPTIONAL,  -- Need R
    featurePriorities-v1800          SEQUENCE {
        msg1-Repetitions-Priority-r18    FeaturePriority-r17                                            OPTIONAL,  -- Need R
        eRedCapPriority-r18              FeaturePriority-r17                                            OPTIONAL   -- Need R
    }                                                                                                   OPTIONAL,  -- Need R
    si-SchedulingInfo-v1800          SI-SchedulingInfo-v1800                                            OPTIONAL,  -- Need R
    cellBarredATG-r18                ENUMERATED {barred, notBarred}                                     OPTIONAL,  -- Need S
    cellBarredNES-r18                ENUMERATED {notBarred}                                             OPTIONAL,  -- Need R
    mobileIAB-Cell-r18               ENUMERATED {true}                                                  OPTIONAL,  -- Need R
    eDRX-AllowedInactive-r18         ENUMERATED {true}                                                  OPTIONAL,  -- Cond EDRX-RC
    intraFreqReselection-eRedCap-r18 ENUMERATED {allowed, notAllowed}                                   OPTIONAL,  -- Need S
    nonServingCellMII-r18            ENUMERATED {true}                                                  OPTIONAL,  -- Need R
    sdt-BeamFailureRecoveryProhibitTimer-r18  ENUMERATED {ms50, ms100, ms200, ms500, ms1000, ms1500, ms2000, ms3000}
                                                                                                        OPTIONAL,  -- Need R
    eRedCap-ConfigCommon-r18         ERedCap-ConfigCommonSIB-r18                                        OPTIONAL,  -- Need R
    cellBarredFixedVSAT-r18          ENUMERATED {barred, notBarred}                                     OPTIONAL,  -- Cond NTN
    cellBarredMobileVSAT-r18         ENUMERATED {barred, notBarred}                                     OPTIONAL,  -- Cond NTN
    reselectionMeasurementsNR-r18    ENUMERATED{true}                                                   OPTIONAL,  -- Need R
    cellBarred2RxXR-r18              ENUMERATED {barred}                                                OPTIONAL,  -- Need R
    intraFreqReselection2RxXR-r18    ENUMERATED {allowed, notAllowed}                                   OPTIONAL,  -- Cond 2RxXR
    barringExemptEmergencyCall-r18   ENUMERATED {true}                                                  OPTIONAL,  -- Cond EM-Barring
    n3c-Support-r18                  ENUMERATED {true}                                                  OPTIONAL,  -- Need R
    nonCriticalExtension             SEQUENCE {}                                                        OPTIONAL
}

UAC-AccessCategory1-SelectionAssistanceInfo ::=    ENUMERATED {a, b, c}

UAC-AC1-SelectAssistInfo-r16 ::=     ENUMERATED {a, b, c, notConfigured}

SDT-ConfigCommonSIB-r17 ::=          SEQUENCE {
    sdt-RSRP-Threshold-r17               RSRP-Range                                                            OPTIONAL, -- Need R
    sdt-LogicalChannelSR-DelayTimer-r17  ENUMERATED { sf20, sf40, sf64, sf128, sf512, sf1024, sf2560, spare1}  OPTIONAL, -- Need R
    sdt-DataVolumeThreshold-r17          ENUMERATED {byte32, byte100, byte200, byte400, byte600, byte800, byte1000, byte2000, byte4000,
                                                     byte8000, byte9000, byte10000, byte12000, byte24000, byte48000, byte96000},
    t319a-r17                            ENUMERATED { ms100, ms200, ms300, ms400, ms600, ms1000, ms2000,
                                                      ms3000, ms4000, spare7, spare6, spare5, spare4, spare3, spare2, spare1}
}

RedCap-ConfigCommonSIB-r17 ::= SEQUENCE {
    halfDuplexRedCapAllowed-r17    ENUMERATED {true}                                                    OPTIONAL,  -- Need R
    cellBarredRedCap-r17           SEQUENCE {
        cellBarredRedCap1Rx-r17        ENUMERATED {barred, notBarred},
        cellBarredRedCap2Rx-r17        ENUMERATED {barred, notBarred}
    }                                                                                                   OPTIONAL,  -- Need R
    ...
}

ERedCap-ConfigCommonSIB-r18 ::= SEQUENCE {
    cellBarred-eRedCap-r18           SEQUENCE {
        cellBarred-eRedCap1Rx-r18        ENUMERATED {barred, notBarred},
        cellBarred-eRedCap2Rx-r18        ENUMERATED {barred, notBarred}
    }
}

FeaturePriority-r17 ::= INTEGER (0..7)

MT-SDT-ConfigCommonSIB-r18 ::=       SEQUENCE {
    mt-SDT-RSRP-Threshold-r18            RSRP-Range                                                            OPTIONAL, -- Need S
    sdt-LogicalChannelSR-DelayTimer-r18  ENUMERATED { sf20, sf40, sf64, sf128, sf512, sf1024, sf2560, spare1}  OPTIONAL, -- Cond MT-SDT1
    t319a-r18                            ENUMERATED { ms100, ms200, ms300, ms400, ms600, ms1000, ms2000,
                                                      ms3000, ms4000, spare7, spare6, spare5, spare4,
                                                      spare3, spare2, spare1}                                  OPTIONAL  -- Cond MT-SDT2
}

-- TAG-SIB1-STOP
-- ASN1STOP





–	SidelinkUEInformationNR
The SidelinkUEinformationNR message is used for the indication of NR sidelink UE information to the network.
Signalling radio bearer: SRB1
RLC-SAP: AM
Logical channel: DCCH
Direction: UE to Network
SidelinkUEInformationNR message
-- ASN1START
-- TAG-SIDELINKUEINFORMATIONNR-START

SidelinkUEInformationNR-r16::=         SEQUENCE {
    criticalExtensions                  CHOICE {
        sidelinkUEInformationNR-r16         SidelinkUEInformationNR-r16-IEs,
        criticalExtensionsFuture            SEQUENCE {}
    }
}

SidelinkUEInformationNR-r16-IEs ::=    SEQUENCE {
    sl-RxInterestedFreqList-r16            SL-InterestedFreqList-r16           OPTIONAL,
    sl-TxResourceReqList-r16               SL-TxResourceReqList-r16            OPTIONAL,
    sl-FailureList-r16                     SL-FailureList-r16                  OPTIONAL,
    lateNonCriticalExtension               OCTET STRING                        OPTIONAL,
    nonCriticalExtension                   SidelinkUEInformationNR-v1700-IEs   OPTIONAL
}

SidelinkUEInformationNR-v1700-IEs ::=  SEQUENCE {
    sl-TxResourceReqList-v1700             SL-TxResourceReqList-v1700                                                 OPTIONAL,
    sl-RxDRX-ReportList-v1700              SL-RxDRX-ReportList-v1700                                                  OPTIONAL,
    sl-RxInterestedGC-BC-DestList-r17      SL-RxInterestedGC-BC-DestList-r17                                          OPTIONAL,
    sl-RxInterestedFreqListDisc-r17        SL-InterestedFreqList-r16                                                  OPTIONAL,
    sl-TxResourceReqListDisc-r17           SL-TxResourceReqListDisc-r17                                               OPTIONAL,
    sl-TxResourceReqListCommRelay-r17      SL-TxResourceReqListCommRelay-r17                                          OPTIONAL,
    ue-Type-r17                            ENUMERATED {relayUE, remoteUE}                                             OPTIONAL,
    sl-SourceIdentityRemoteUE-r17          SL-SourceIdentity-r17                                                      OPTIONAL,
    nonCriticalExtension                   SidelinkUEInformationNR-v1800-IEs                                          OPTIONAL
}

SidelinkUEInformationNR-v1800-IEs ::=  SEQUENCE {
    sl-CarrierFailureList-r18              SL-CarrierFailureList-r18                                                  OPTIONAL,
    sl-TxResourceReqListL2-U2U-r18         SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxNrofSL-Dest-r16)) OF SL-TxResourceReqL2-U2U-r18      OPTIONAL,
    sl-PosRxInterestedFreqList-r18         SL-InterestedFreqList-r16                                                  OPTIONAL,
    sl-PosTxResourceReqList-r18            SL-PosTxResourceReqList-r18                                                OPTIONAL,
    nonCriticalExtension                   SidelinkUEInformationNR-v1840-IEs                                          OPTIONAL
}

SidelinkUEInformationNR-v1840-IEs ::=  SEQUENCE {
    sl-PosRxInterestedFreqList2-r18        SL-InterestedFreqList-r16                                                  OPTIONAL,
    nonCriticalExtension                   SEQUENCE {}                                                                OPTIONAL
}

SL-InterestedFreqList-r16 ::=          SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxNrofFreqSL-r16)) OF INTEGER (1..maxNrofFreqSL-r16)

SL-TxResourceReqList-r16 ::=           SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxNrofSL-Dest-r16)) OF SL-TxResourceReq-r16

SL-PosTxResourceReqList-r18 ::=        SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxNrofSL-Dest-r16)) OF SL-PosTxResourceReq-r18

SL-TxResourceReq-r16 ::=               SEQUENCE {
    sl-DestinationIdentity-r16             SL-DestinationIdentity-r16,
    sl-CastType-r16                        ENUMERATED {broadcast, groupcast, unicast, spare1},
    sl-RLC-ModeIndicationList-r16          SEQUENCE (SIZE (1.. maxNrofSLRB-r16)) OF SL-RLC-ModeIndication-r16         OPTIONAL,
    sl-QoS-InfoList-r16                    SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxNrofSL-QFIsPerDest-r16)) OF SL-QoS-Info-r16          OPTIONAL,
    sl-TypeTxSyncList-r16                  SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxNrofFreqSL-r16)) OF SL-TypeTxSync-r16                OPTIONAL,
    sl-TxInterestedFreqList-r16            SL-TxInterestedFreqList-r16                                                OPTIONAL,
    sl-CapabilityInformationSidelink-r16   OCTET STRING                                                               OPTIONAL
}

SL-TxResourceReqList-v1700 ::=         SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxNrofSL-Dest-r16)) OF SL-TxResourceReq-v1700

SL-RxDRX-ReportList-v1700 ::=          SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxNrofSL-Dest-r16)) OF SL-RxDRX-Report-v1700

SL-TxResourceReq-v1700 ::=             SEQUENCE {
    sl-DRX-InfoFromRxList-r17              SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxNrofSL-RxInfoSet-r17)) OF SL-DRX-ConfigUC-SemiStatic-r17   OPTIONAL,
    sl-DRX-Indication-r17                  ENUMERATED {on, off}                                                             OPTIONAL,
    ...,
    [[
    sl-QoS-InfoList-v1800                  SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxNrofSL-QFIsPerDest-r16)) OF SL-QoS-Info-v1800              OPTIONAL
    ]]
}

SL-RxDRX-Report-v1700 ::=              SEQUENCE {
    sl-DRX-ConfigFromTx-r17                SL-DRX-ConfigUC-SemiStatic-r17,
    ...
}

SL-RxInterestedGC-BC-DestList-r17 ::=  SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxNrofSL-Dest-r16)) OF SL-RxInterestedGC-BC-Dest-r17

SL-RxInterestedGC-BC-Dest-r17 ::=      SEQUENCE {
    sl-RxInterestedQoS-InfoList-r17        SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxNrofSL-QFIsPerDest-r16)) OF SL-QoS-Info-r16,
    sl-DestinationIdentity-r16             SL-DestinationIdentity-r16
}

SL-TxResourceReqListDisc-r17 ::=       SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxNrofSL-Dest-r16)) OF SL-TxResourceReqDisc-r17

SL-TxResourceReqDisc-r17 ::=           SEQUENCE {
    sl-DestinationIdentityDisc-r17         SL-DestinationIdentity-r16,
    sl-SourceIdentityRelayUE-r17           SL-SourceIdentity-r17                                                      OPTIONAL,
    sl-CastTypeDisc-r17                    ENUMERATED {broadcast, groupcast, unicast, spare1},
    sl-TxInterestedFreqListDisc-r17        SL-TxInterestedFreqList-r16,
    sl-TypeTxSyncListDisc-r17              SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxNrofFreqSL-r16)) OF SL-TypeTxSync-r16,
    sl-DiscoveryType-r17                   ENUMERATED {relay, non-Relay},
    ...,
    [[
    ue-TypeU2U-r18                         ENUMERATED {relayUE, remoteUE}                                             OPTIONAL
    ]]
}

SL-TxResourceReqListCommRelay-r17 ::=  SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxNrofSL-Dest-r16)) OF SL-TxResourceReqCommRelayInfo-r17

SL-TxResourceReqCommRelayInfo-r17 ::=  SEQUENCE {
    sl-RelayDRXConfig-r17                 SL-TxResourceReq-v1700                                                       OPTIONAL,
    sl-TxResourceReqCommRelay-r17         SL-TxResourceReqCommRelay-r17
}

SL-TxResourceReqCommRelay-r17 ::=      CHOICE {
    sl-TxResourceReqL2U2N-Relay-r17        SL-TxResourceReqL2U2N-Relay-r17,
    sl-TxResourceReqL3U2N-Relay-r17        SL-TxResourceReq-r16
}

SL-TxResourceReqL2U2N-Relay-r17 ::=    SEQUENCE {
    sl-DestinationIdentityL2U2N-r17        SL-DestinationIdentity-r16                                                 OPTIONAL,
    sl-TxInterestedFreqListL2U2N-r17       SL-TxInterestedFreqList-r16,
    sl-TypeTxSyncListL2U2N-r17             SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxNrofFreqSL-r16)) OF SL-TypeTxSync-r16,
    sl-LocalID-Request-r17                 ENUMERATED {true}                                                          OPTIONAL,
    sl-PagingIdentityRemoteUE-r17          SL-PagingIdentityRemoteUE-r17                                              OPTIONAL,
    sl-CapabilityInformationSidelink-r17   OCTET STRING                                                               OPTIONAL,
    ...
}

SL-TxResourceReqL2-U2U-r18 ::=         SEQUENCE {
    sl-DestinationIdentityL2-U2U-r18       SL-DestinationIdentity-r16                                                 OPTIONAL,
    sl-TxInterestedFreqListL2-U2U-r18      SL-TxInterestedFreqList-r16,
    sl-TypeTxSyncListL2-U2U-r18            SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxNrofFreqSL-r16)) OF SL-TypeTxSync-r16,
    sl-CapabilityInformationSidelink-r18   OCTET STRING                                                               OPTIONAL,
    sl-U2U-InfoList-r18                    SEQUENCE (SIZE (1.. maxNrofRemoteUE-r17)) OF SL-U2U-Info-r18               OPTIONAL,
    sl-RLC-ModeIndicationListL2-U2U-r18    SEQUENCE (SIZE (1.. maxNrofSLRB-r16)) OF SL-RLC-Mode-r18                   OPTIONAL,
    ...
}

SL-U2U-Info-r18 ::=                    SEQUENCE {
    sl-U2U-Identity-r18                    CHOICE {
        sl-TargetUE-Identity-r18               SL-DestinationIdentity-r16,
        sl-SourceUE-Identity-r18               SL-SourceIdentity-r17
   },
   sl-E2E-QoS-InfoList-r18                 SEQUENCE (SIZE (1.. maxNrofSL-QFIsPerDest-r16)) OF SL-QoS-Info-r16         OPTIONAL,
   sl-PerHop-QoS-InfoList-r18              SEQUENCE (SIZE (1.. maxNrofSL-QFIsPerDest-r16)) OF SL-SplitQoS-Info-r18    OPTIONAL,
   sl-PerSLRB-QoS-InfoList-r18             SEQUENCE (SIZE (1.. maxNrofSLRB-r16)) OF SL-PerSLRB-QoS-Info-r18           OPTIONAL,
   sl-CapabilityInformationTargetRemoteUE-r18  OCTET STRING                                                           OPTIONAL
}

SL-PosTxResourceReq-r18 ::=                SEQUENCE {
    sl-PosDestinationIdentity-r18              SL-DestinationIdentity-r16,
    sl-PosCastType-r18                         ENUMERATED {broadcast, groupcast, unicast, spare1},
    sl-PosTxInterestedFreqList-r18             SL-TxInterestedFreqList-r16                                            OPTIONAL,
    sl-PosTypeTxSyncList-r18                   SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxNrofFreqSL-r16)) OF SL-TypeTxSync-r16            OPTIONAL,
    sl-PosQoS-InfoList-r18                     SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxNrofSL-PRS-PerDest-r18)) OF SL-PRS-QoS-Info-r18  OPTIONAL,
    sl-CapabilityInformationSidelink-r18       OCTET STRING                                                           OPTIONAL,
    ...,
    [[
    sl-PosTxInterestedFreqList2-r18            SL-TxInterestedFreqList-r16                                            OPTIONAL
    ]]
}

SL-TxInterestedFreqList-r16 ::=        SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxNrofFreqSL-r16)) OF INTEGER (1..maxNrofFreqSL-r16)

SL-QoS-Info-r16 ::=                    SEQUENCE {
    sl-QoS-FlowIdentity-r16               SL-QoS-FlowIdentity-r16,
    sl-QoS-Profile-r16                    SL-QoS-Profile-r16                                                          OPTIONAL
}

SL-QoS-Info-v1800 ::=                  SEQUENCE {
    sl-TxInterestedFreqList-r18            SL-TxInterestedFreqList-r16,
    sl-TxProfile-r18                       SL-TxProfile-r18                    OPTIONAL,
    ...
}

SL-TxProfile-r18 ::=                   ENUMERATED {backwardsCompatible, backwardsIncompatible}

SL-RLC-ModeIndication-r16 ::=          SEQUENCE {
    sl-Mode-r16                            CHOICE  {
        sl-AM-Mode-r16                         NULL,
        sl-UM-Mode-r16                         NULL
    },
    sl-QoS-InfoList-r16                SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxNrofSL-QFIsPerDest-r16)) OF SL-QoS-Info-r16
}

SL-FailureList-r16 ::=                 SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxNrofSL-Dest-r16)) OF SL-Failure-r16

SL-Failure-r16 ::=                     SEQUENCE {
    sl-DestinationIdentity-r16             SL-DestinationIdentity-r16,
    sl-Failure-r16                         ENUMERATED {rlf,configFailure, drxReject-v1710, spare5, spare4, spare3, spare2, spare1}
}

SL-CarrierFailureList-r18 ::=          SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxNrofSL-Dest-r16)) OF SL-CarrierFailure-r18

SL-CarrierFailure-r18 ::=              SEQUENCE {
    sl-DestinationIdentity-r18             SL-DestinationIdentity-r16,
    sl-CarrierFailure-r18                  SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxNrofFreqSL-r16)) OF INTEGER (1..maxNrofFreqSL-r16)
}

SL-SplitQoS-Info-r18 ::=               SEQUENCE {
    sl-QoS-FlowIdentity-r18                SL-QoS-FlowIdentity-r16,
    sl-SplitPacketDelayBudget-r18          INTEGER (0..1023)                                                          OPTIONAL,
    ...
}

SL-PerSLRB-QoS-Info-r18 ::=            SEQUENCE {
    sl-RemoteUE-SLRB-Identity-r18           SLRB-Uu-ConfigIndex-r16,
    sl-QoS-ProfilePerSLRB-r18               SL-QoS-Profile-r16                                                        OPTIONAL
}

SL-PRS-QoS-Info-r18 ::=                SEQUENCE {
    sl-PRS-Priority-r18                    INTEGER (1..8)                                                             OPTIONAL,
    sl-PRS-DelayBudget-r18                 INTEGER (0..1023)                                                          OPTIONAL,
    sl-PRS-Bandwidth-r18                   ENUMERATED {mhz5, mhz10, mhz15, mhz20, mhz25, mhz30, mhz35, mhz40,
                                                      mhz45, mhz50, mhz60, mhz70, mhz80, mhz90, mhz100, mhz200, mhz400,
                                                      spare15, spare14, spare13, spare12, spare11, spare10, spare9, spare8,
                                                      spare7, spare6, spare5, spare4, spare3, spare2, spare1}         OPTIONAL,
    ...
}

SL-RLC-Mode-r18 ::=            CHOICE {
    sl-AM-Mode-r18                 NULL,
    sl-UM-Mode-r18                 NULL
}

-- TAG-SIDELINKUEINFORMATIONNR-STOP
-- ASN1STOP

























–	SystemInformation
The SystemInformation message is used to convey one or more System Information Blocks or Positioning System Information Blocks. All the SIBs or posSIBs included are transmitted with the same periodicity.
Signalling radio bearer: N/A
RLC-SAP: TM
Logical channels: BCCH
Direction: Network to UE
SystemInformation message
-- ASN1START
-- TAG-SYSTEMINFORMATION-START

SystemInformation ::=               SEQUENCE {
    criticalExtensions                  CHOICE {
        systemInformation                   SystemInformation-IEs,
        criticalExtensionsFuture-r16    CHOICE {
            posSystemInformation-r16        PosSystemInformation-r16-IEs,
            criticalExtensionsFuture        SEQUENCE {}
        }
    }
}

SystemInformation-IEs ::=           SEQUENCE {
    sib-TypeAndInfo                     SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxSIB)) OF CHOICE {
        sib2                                SIB2,
        sib3                                SIB3,
        sib4                                SIB4,
        sib5                                SIB5,
        sib6                                SIB6,
        sib7                                SIB7,
        sib8                                SIB8,
        sib9                                SIB9,
        ...,
        sib10-v1610                         SIB10-r16,
        sib11-v1610                         SIB11-r16,
        sib12-v1610                         SIB12-r16,
        sib13-v1610                         SIB13-r16,
        sib14-v1610                         SIB14-r16,
        sib15-v1700                         SIB15-r17,
        sib16-v1700                         SIB16-r17,
        sib17-v1700                         SIB17-r17,
        sib18-v1700                         SIB18-r17,
        sib19-v1700                         SIB19-r17,
        sib20-v1700                         SIB20-r17,
        sib21-v1700                         SIB21-r17,
        sib22-v1800                         SIB22-r18,
        sib23-v1800                         SIB23-r18,
        sib24-v1800                         SIB24-r18,
        sib25-v1800                         SIB25-r18,
        sib17bis-v1820                      SIB17bis-r18

    },
    lateNonCriticalExtension            OCTET STRING                        OPTIONAL,
    nonCriticalExtension                SEQUENCE {}                         OPTIONAL
}

-- TAG-SYSTEMINFORMATION-STOP
-- ASN1STOP

–	UEAssistanceInformation
The UEAssistanceInformation message is used for the indication of UE assistance information to the network.
Signalling radio bearer: SRB1, SRB3
RLC-SAP: AM
Logical channel: DCCH
Direction: UE to Network
UEAssistanceInformation message
-- ASN1START
-- TAG-UEASSISTANCEINFORMATION-START

UEAssistanceInformation ::=         SEQUENCE {
    criticalExtensions                  CHOICE {
        ueAssistanceInformation             UEAssistanceInformation-IEs,
        criticalExtensionsFuture            SEQUENCE {}
    }
}

UEAssistanceInformation-IEs ::=     SEQUENCE {
    delayBudgetReport                   DelayBudgetReport                   OPTIONAL,
    lateNonCriticalExtension            OCTET STRING                        OPTIONAL,
    nonCriticalExtension                UEAssistanceInformation-v1540-IEs   OPTIONAL
}

DelayBudgetReport::=                CHOICE {
    type1                               ENUMERATED {
                                            msMinus1280, msMinus640, msMinus320, msMinus160,msMinus80, msMinus60, msMinus40,
                                            msMinus20, ms0, ms20,ms40, ms60, ms80, ms160, ms320, ms640, ms1280},
    ...
}

UEAssistanceInformation-v1540-IEs ::= SEQUENCE {
    overheatingAssistance               OverheatingAssistance               OPTIONAL,
    nonCriticalExtension                UEAssistanceInformation-v1610-IEs   OPTIONAL
}

OverheatingAssistance ::=           SEQUENCE {
    reducedMaxCCs                       ReducedMaxCCs-r16                   OPTIONAL,
    reducedMaxBW-FR1                    ReducedMaxBW-FRx-r16                OPTIONAL,
    reducedMaxBW-FR2                    ReducedMaxBW-FRx-r16                OPTIONAL,
    reducedMaxMIMO-LayersFR1            SEQUENCE {
        reducedMIMO-LayersFR1-DL            MIMO-LayersDL,
        reducedMIMO-LayersFR1-UL            MIMO-LayersUL
    } OPTIONAL,
    reducedMaxMIMO-LayersFR2            SEQUENCE {
        reducedMIMO-LayersFR2-DL            MIMO-LayersDL,
        reducedMIMO-LayersFR2-UL            MIMO-LayersUL
    } OPTIONAL
}
OverheatingAssistance-r17 ::=       SEQUENCE {
    reducedMaxBW-FR2-2-r17              SEQUENCE {
        reducedBW-FR2-2-DL-r17              ReducedAggregatedBandwidth-r17,
        reducedBW-FR2-2-UL-r17              ReducedAggregatedBandwidth-r17
    } OPTIONAL,
    reducedMaxMIMO-LayersFR2-2          SEQUENCE {
        reducedMIMO-LayersFR2-2-DL          MIMO-LayersDL,
        reducedMIMO-LayersFR2-2-UL          MIMO-LayersUL
    } OPTIONAL
}

ReducedAggregatedBandwidth ::= ENUMERATED {mhz0, mhz10, mhz20, mhz30, mhz40, mhz50, mhz60, mhz80, mhz100, mhz200, mhz300, mhz400}

ReducedAggregatedBandwidth-r17 ::= ENUMERATED {mhz0, mhz100, mhz200, mhz400, mhz800, mhz1200, mhz1600, mhz2000}

UEAssistanceInformation-v1610-IEs ::= SEQUENCE {
    idc-Assistance-r16                  IDC-Assistance-r16                  OPTIONAL,
    drx-Preference-r16                  DRX-Preference-r16                  OPTIONAL,
    maxBW-Preference-r16                MaxBW-Preference-r16                OPTIONAL,
    maxCC-Preference-r16                MaxCC-Preference-r16                OPTIONAL,
    maxMIMO-LayerPreference-r16         MaxMIMO-LayerPreference-r16         OPTIONAL,
    minSchedulingOffsetPreference-r16   MinSchedulingOffsetPreference-r16   OPTIONAL,
    releasePreference-r16               ReleasePreference-r16               OPTIONAL,
    sl-UE-AssistanceInformationNR-r16   SL-UE-AssistanceInformationNR-r16   OPTIONAL,
    referenceTimeInfoPreference-r16     BOOLEAN                             OPTIONAL,
    nonCriticalExtension                UEAssistanceInformation-v1700-IEs   OPTIONAL
}

UEAssistanceInformation-v1700-IEs ::= SEQUENCE {
    ul-GapFR2-Preference-r17              UL-GapFR2-Preference-r17              OPTIONAL,
    musim-Assistance-r17                  MUSIM-Assistance-r17                  OPTIONAL,
    overheatingAssistance-r17             OverheatingAssistance-r17             OPTIONAL,
    maxBW-PreferenceFR2-2-r17             MaxBW-PreferenceFR2-2-r17             OPTIONAL,
    maxMIMO-LayerPreferenceFR2-2-r17      MaxMIMO-LayerPreferenceFR2-2-r17      OPTIONAL,
    minSchedulingOffsetPreferenceExt-r17  MinSchedulingOffsetPreferenceExt-r17  OPTIONAL,
    rlm-MeasRelaxationState-r17           BOOLEAN                               OPTIONAL,
    bfd-MeasRelaxationState-r17           BIT STRING (SIZE (1..maxNrofServingCells)) OPTIONAL,
    nonSDT-DataIndication-r17             SEQUENCE {
        resumeCause-r17                       ResumeCause                       OPTIONAL
    }                                                                           OPTIONAL,
    scg-DeactivationPreference-r17        ENUMERATED { scg-DeactivationPreferred, noPreference }    OPTIONAL,
    uplinkData-r17                        ENUMERATED { true }                   OPTIONAL,
    rrm-MeasRelaxationFulfilment-r17      BOOLEAN                               OPTIONAL,
    propagationDelayDifference-r17        PropagationDelayDifference-r17        OPTIONAL,
    nonCriticalExtension                  UEAssistanceInformation-v1800-IEs     OPTIONAL
}

UEAssistanceInformation-v1800-IEs ::= SEQUENCE {
    idc-FDM-Assistance-r18                IDC-FDM-Assistance-r18                          OPTIONAL,
    idc-TDM-Assistance-r18                IDC-TDM-Assistance-r18                          OPTIONAL,
    multiRx-PreferenceFR2-r18             ENUMERATED {single, multiple }                  OPTIONAL,
    musim-Assistance-v1800                MUSIM-Assistance-v1800                          OPTIONAL,
    flightPathInfoAvailable-r18           ENUMERATED {true}                               OPTIONAL,
    ul-TrafficInfo-r18                    UL-TrafficInfo-r18                              OPTIONAL,
    n3c-RelayUE-InfoList-r18              SEQUENCE (SIZE (0..8)) OF N3C-RelayUE-Info-r18  OPTIONAL,
    sl-PRS-UE-AssistanceInformationNR-r18 SL-PRS-UE-AssistanceInformationNR-r18           OPTIONAL,
    nonCriticalExtension                  SEQUENCE {}                                     OPTIONAL
}

IDC-Assistance-r16 ::=                  SEQUENCE {
    affectedCarrierFreqList-r16             AffectedCarrierFreqList-r16               OPTIONAL,
    affectedCarrierFreqCombList-r16         AffectedCarrierFreqCombList-r16           OPTIONAL,
    ...
}

AffectedCarrierFreqList-r16 ::= SEQUENCE (SIZE (1.. maxFreqIDC-r16)) OF AffectedCarrierFreq-r16

AffectedCarrierFreq-r16 ::=     SEQUENCE {
    carrierFreq-r16                 ARFCN-ValueNR,
    interferenceDirection-r16       ENUMERATED {nr, other, both, spare}
}

AffectedCarrierFreqCombList-r16 ::= SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxCombIDC-r16)) OF AffectedCarrierFreqComb-r16

AffectedCarrierFreqComb-r16 ::=     SEQUENCE {
    affectedCarrierFreqComb-r16         SEQUENCE (SIZE (2..maxNrofServingCells)) OF  ARFCN-ValueNR    OPTIONAL,
    victimSystemType-r16                VictimSystemType-r16
}

VictimSystemType-r16 ::=    SEQUENCE {
    gps-r16                     ENUMERATED {true}        OPTIONAL,
    glonass-r16                 ENUMERATED {true}        OPTIONAL,
    bds-r16                     ENUMERATED {true}        OPTIONAL,
    galileo-r16                 ENUMERATED {true}        OPTIONAL,
    navIC-r16                   ENUMERATED {true}        OPTIONAL,
    wlan-r16                    ENUMERATED {true}        OPTIONAL,
    bluetooth-r16               ENUMERATED {true}        OPTIONAL,
    ...,
    [[
    uwb-r18                     ENUMERATED {true}        OPTIONAL
    ]]
}

DRX-Preference-r16 ::=              SEQUENCE {
    preferredDRX-InactivityTimer-r16    ENUMERATED {
                                            ms0, ms1, ms2, ms3, ms4, ms5, ms6, ms8, ms10, ms20, ms30, ms40, ms50, ms60, ms80,
                                            ms100, ms200, ms300, ms500, ms750, ms1280, ms1920, ms2560, spare9, spare8,
                                            spare7, spare6, spare5, spare4, spare3, spare2, spare1} OPTIONAL,
    preferredDRX-LongCycle-r16          ENUMERATED {
                                            ms10, ms20, ms32, ms40, ms60, ms64, ms70, ms80, ms128, ms160, ms256, ms320, ms512,
                                            ms640, ms1024, ms1280, ms2048, ms2560, ms5120, ms10240, spare12, spare11, spare10,
                                            spare9, spare8, spare7, spare6, spare5, spare4, spare3, spare2, spare1 } OPTIONAL,
    preferredDRX-ShortCycle-r16         ENUMERATED {
                                            ms2, ms3, ms4, ms5, ms6, ms7, ms8, ms10, ms14, ms16, ms20, ms30, ms32,
                                            ms35, ms40, ms64, ms80, ms128, ms160, ms256, ms320, ms512, ms640, spare9,
                                            spare8, spare7, spare6, spare5, spare4, spare3, spare2, spare1 } OPTIONAL,
    preferredDRX-ShortCycleTimer-r16    INTEGER (1..16)    OPTIONAL
}

MaxBW-Preference-r16 ::=            SEQUENCE {
    reducedMaxBW-FR1-r16                ReducedMaxBW-FRx-r16                     OPTIONAL,
    reducedMaxBW-FR2-r16                ReducedMaxBW-FRx-r16                     OPTIONAL
}

MaxBW-PreferenceFR2-2-r17 ::=       SEQUENCE {
    reducedMaxBW-FR2-2-r17              SEQUENCE {
        reducedBW-FR2-2-DL-r17              ReducedAggregatedBandwidth-r17       OPTIONAL,
        reducedBW-FR2-2-UL-r17              ReducedAggregatedBandwidth-r17       OPTIONAL
    } OPTIONAL
}

MaxCC-Preference-r16 ::=            SEQUENCE {
    reducedMaxCCs-r16                   ReducedMaxCCs-r16                        OPTIONAL
}

MaxMIMO-LayerPreference-r16 ::=     SEQUENCE {
    reducedMaxMIMO-LayersFR1-r16        SEQUENCE {
        reducedMIMO-LayersFR1-DL-r16        INTEGER (1..8),
        reducedMIMO-LayersFR1-UL-r16        INTEGER (1..4)
    } OPTIONAL,
    reducedMaxMIMO-LayersFR2-r16        SEQUENCE {
        reducedMIMO-LayersFR2-DL-r16        INTEGER (1..8),
        reducedMIMO-LayersFR2-UL-r16        INTEGER (1..4)
    } OPTIONAL
}

MaxMIMO-LayerPreferenceFR2-2-r17 ::=    SEQUENCE {
    reducedMaxMIMO-LayersFR2-2-r17          SEQUENCE {
        reducedMIMO-LayersFR2-2-DL-r17          INTEGER (1..8),
        reducedMIMO-LayersFR2-2-UL-r17          INTEGER (1..4)
    } OPTIONAL
}

MinSchedulingOffsetPreference-r16 ::= SEQUENCE {
    preferredK0-r16                       SEQUENCE {
        preferredK0-SCS-15kHz-r16             ENUMERATED {sl1, sl2, sl4, sl6}              OPTIONAL,
        preferredK0-SCS-30kHz-r16             ENUMERATED {sl1, sl2, sl4, sl6}              OPTIONAL,
        preferredK0-SCS-60kHz-r16             ENUMERATED {sl2, sl4, sl8, sl12}             OPTIONAL,
        preferredK0-SCS-120kHz-r16            ENUMERATED {sl2, sl4, sl8, sl12}             OPTIONAL
    }                                                                                  OPTIONAL,
    preferredK2-r16                       SEQUENCE {
        preferredK2-SCS-15kHz-r16             ENUMERATED {sl1, sl2, sl4, sl6}             OPTIONAL,
        preferredK2-SCS-30kHz-r16             ENUMERATED {sl1, sl2, sl4, sl6}             OPTIONAL,
        preferredK2-SCS-60kHz-r16             ENUMERATED {sl2, sl4, sl8, sl12}            OPTIONAL,
        preferredK2-SCS-120kHz-r16            ENUMERATED {sl2, sl4, sl8, sl12}            OPTIONAL
    }                                                                                 OPTIONAL
}

MinSchedulingOffsetPreferenceExt-r17 ::=  SEQUENCE {
    preferredK0-r17                           SEQUENCE {
        preferredK0-SCS-480kHz-r17                ENUMERATED {sl8, sl16, sl32, sl48}      OPTIONAL,
        preferredK0-SCS-960kHz-r17                ENUMERATED {sl8, sl16, sl32, sl48}      OPTIONAL
    }                                                                                     OPTIONAL,
    preferredK2-r17                           SEQUENCE {
        preferredK2-SCS-480kHz-r17                ENUMERATED {sl8, sl16, sl32, sl48}      OPTIONAL,
        preferredK2-SCS-960kHz-r17                ENUMERATED {sl8, sl16, sl32, sl48}      OPTIONAL
    }                                                                                     OPTIONAL
}

MUSIM-Assistance-r17 ::=              SEQUENCE {
    musim-PreferredRRC-State-r17          ENUMERATED {idle, inactive, outOfConnected}     OPTIONAL,
    musim-GapPreferenceList-r17           MUSIM-GapPreferenceList-r17                     OPTIONAL
}

MUSIM-GapPreferenceList-r17 ::= SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..4)) OF MUSIM-GapInfo-r17


MUSIM-Assistance-v1800 ::=              SEQUENCE {
    musim-GapPriorityPreferenceList-r18     MUSIM-GapPriorityPreferenceList-r18           OPTIONAL,
    musim-GapKeepPreference-r18             ENUMERATED {true}                             OPTIONAL,
    musim-CapRestriction-r18                MUSIM-CapRestriction-r18                      OPTIONAL,
    musim-NeedForGapsInfoNR-r18             NeedForGapsInfoNR-r16                         OPTIONAL,
    ...
}

MUSIM-GapPriorityPreferenceList-r18 ::= SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..3)) OF GapPriority-r17

MUSIM-CapRestriction-r18 ::=            SEQUENCE {
    musim-Cell-SCG-ToRelease-r18            MUSIM-Cell-SCG-ToRelease-r18                  OPTIONAL,
    musim-CellToAffectList-r18              MUSIM-CellToAffectList-r18                    OPTIONAL,
    musim-AffectedBandsList-r18             MUSIM-AffectedBandsList-r18                   OPTIONAL,
    musim-AvoidedBandsList-r18              MUSIM-AvoidedBandsList-r18                    OPTIONAL,
    musim-MaxCC-r18                         MUSIM-MaxCC-r18                               OPTIONAL
}

MUSIM-Cell-SCG-ToRelease-r18 ::=        SEQUENCE {
    musim-CellToRelease-r18                 MUSIM-CellToRelease-r18                       OPTIONAL,
    scg-ReleasePreference-r18               ENUMERATED {true}                             OPTIONAL
}

MUSIM-CellToRelease-r18 ::=             SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxNrofServingCells)) OF ServCellIndex

MUSIM-CellToAffectList-r18::=           SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxNrofServingCells)) OF MUSIM-CellToAffect-r18

MUSIM-CellToAffect-r18 ::=              SEQUENCE {
    musim-ServCellIndex-r18                 ServCellIndex,
    musim-MIMO-Layers-DL-r18                INTEGER (1..8)                                OPTIONAL,
    musim-MIMO-Layers-UL-r18                INTEGER (1..4)                                OPTIONAL,
    musim-SupportedBandwidth-DL-r18         SupportedBandwidth-v1700                      OPTIONAL,
    musim-SupportedBandwidth-UL-r18         SupportedBandwidth-v1700                      OPTIONAL
}

MUSIM-AffectedBandsList-r18  ::=        SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxBandComb-MUSIM-r18)) OF MUSIM-AffectedBands-r18

MUSIM-AffectedBands-r18 ::=             SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxCandidateBandIndex-r18)) OF MUSIM-CapabilityRestrictedBandParameters-r18

MUSIM-CapabilityRestrictedBandParameters-r18 ::= SEQUENCE {
    musim-bandEntryIndex-r18                MUSIM-BandEntryIndex-r18,
    musim-CapabilityRestricted-r18          SEQUENCE {
        musim-MIMO-Layers-DL-r18                INTEGER (1..8)                            OPTIONAL,
        musim-MIMO-Layers-UL-r18                INTEGER (1..4)                            OPTIONAL,
        musim-SupportedBandwidth-DL-r18         SupportedBandwidth-v1700                  OPTIONAL,
        musim-SupportedBandwidth-UL-r18         SupportedBandwidth-v1700                  OPTIONAL
    }
}

MUSIM-AvoidedBandsList-r18 ::=          SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxBandComb-MUSIM-r18)) OF MUSIM-AvoidedBands-r18

MUSIM-AvoidedBands-r18 ::=              SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxCandidateBandIndex-r18)) OF MUSIM-BandEntryIndex-r18

MUSIM-BandEntryIndex-r18 ::=            INTEGER(1.. maxCandidateBandIndex-r18)

MUSIM-MaxCC-r18 ::=                     SEQUENCE {
    musim-MaxCC-TotalDL-r18                 INTEGER (1..32)                               OPTIONAL,
    musim-MaxCC-TotalUL-r18                 INTEGER (1..32)                               OPTIONAL,
    musim-MaxCC-FR1-DL-r18                  INTEGER (1..32)                               OPTIONAL,
    musim-MaxCC-FR1-UL-r18                  INTEGER (1..32)                               OPTIONAL,
    musim-MaxCC-FR2-1-DL-r18                INTEGER (1..32)                               OPTIONAL,
    musim-MaxCC-FR2-1-UL-r18                INTEGER (1..32)                               OPTIONAL,
    musim-MaxCC-FR2-2-DL-r18                INTEGER (1..32)                                OPTIONAL,
    musim-MaxCC-FR2-2-UL-r18                INTEGER (1..32)                                OPTIONAL
}

ReleasePreference-r16 ::=           SEQUENCE {
    preferredRRC-State-r16              ENUMERATED {idle, inactive, connected, outOfConnected}
}

ReducedMaxBW-FRx-r16 ::=            SEQUENCE {
    reducedBW-DL-r16                    ReducedAggregatedBandwidth,
    reducedBW-UL-r16                    ReducedAggregatedBandwidth
}

ReducedMaxCCs-r16 ::=               SEQUENCE {
    reducedCCsDL-r16                    INTEGER (0..31),
    reducedCCsUL-r16                    INTEGER (0..31)
}

SL-UE-AssistanceInformationNR-r16 ::= SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxNrofTrafficPattern-r16)) OF SL-TrafficPatternInfo-r16

SL-TrafficPatternInfo-r16::=          SEQUENCE {
    trafficPeriodicity-r16                ENUMERATED {ms20, ms50, ms100, ms200, ms300, ms400, ms500, ms600, ms700, ms800, ms900, ms1000},
    timingOffset-r16                      INTEGER (0..10239),
    messageSize-r16                       BIT STRING (SIZE (8)),
    sl-QoS-FlowIdentity-r16               SL-QoS-FlowIdentity-r16
}

UL-GapFR2-Preference-r17::=           SEQUENCE {
    ul-GapFR2-PatternPreference-r17       INTEGER (0..3)                     OPTIONAL
}

PropagationDelayDifference-r17 ::=  SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..4)) OF INTEGER (-270..270)

IDC-FDM-Assistance-r18 ::=            SEQUENCE {
    affectedCarrierFreqRangeList-r18      AffectedCarrierFreqRangeList-r18               OPTIONAL,
    affectedCarrierFreqRangeCombList-r18  AffectedCarrierFreqRangeCombList-r18           OPTIONAL,
    ...
}

IDC-TDM-Assistance-r18 ::=            SEQUENCE {
    cycleLength-r18                       ENUMERATED {ms2, ms3, ms4, ms5, ms6, ms7, ms8, ms10, ms14, ms16, ms20, ms30,
                                              ms32, ms35, ms40, ms60, ms64, ms70, ms80, ms96, ms100, ms128, ms160,
                                              ms256, ms320, ms512, ms640, ms1024, ms1280, ms2048, ms2560, ms5120, ms10240},
    startOffset-r18                       INTEGER (0..10239),
    slotOffset-r18                        INTEGER (0..31),
    activeDuration-r18                    CHOICE {
                                              subMilliSeconds-r18 INTEGER (1..31),
                                              milliSeconds-r18    ENUMERATED {
                                                  ms1, ms2, ms3, ms4, ms5, ms6, ms8, ms10, ms20, ms30, ms40, ms50, ms60,
                                                  ms80, ms100, ms200, ms300, ms400, ms500, ms600, ms800, ms1000, ms1200,
                                                  ms1600, spare8, spare7, spare6, spare5, spare4, spare3, spare2, spare1 }
                                          },
    ...
}

AffectedCarrierFreqRangeList-r18 ::=  SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxFreqIDC-r16)) OF AffectedCarrierFreqRange-r18

AffectedCarrierFreqRange-r18 ::=      SEQUENCE {
    affectedFreqRange-r18                 AffectedFreqRange-r18,
    interferenceDirection-r18             ENUMERATED {nr, other, both, spare},
    victimSystemType-r18                  VictimSystemType-r16                           OPTIONAL
}

AffectedCarrierFreqRangeCombList-r18 ::= SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxCombIDC-r16)) OF AffectedCarrierFreqRangeComb-r18

AffectedCarrierFreqRangeComb-r18 ::=  SEQUENCE {
    affectedCarrierFreqRangeComb-r18      SEQUENCE (SIZE (2..maxNrofServingCells)) OF AffectedFreqRange-r18,
    interferenceDirection-r18             ENUMERATED {nr, other, both, spare},
    victimSystemType-r18                  VictimSystemType-r16                           OPTIONAL
}

AffectedFreqRange-r18 ::=             SEQUENCE {
    centerFreq-r18                        ARFCN-ValueNR,
    affectedBandwidth-r18                 ENUMERATED {khz200, khz400, khz600, khz800, mhz1, mhz2, mhz3, mhz4, mhz5, mhz6,
                                              mhz8, mhz10, mhz20, mhz30, mhz40, mhz50, mhz60, mhz80, mhz100, mhz200,
                                              mhz300, mhz400, spare10, spare9, spare8, spare7, spare6, spare5, spare4,
                                              spare3, spare2, spare1}
}

UL-TrafficInfo-r18 ::=                SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxNrofPDU-Sessions-r17)) OF PDU-SessionUL-TrafficInfo-r18

PDU-SessionUL-TrafficInfo-r18 ::=     SEQUENCE {
    pdu-SessionID-r18                     PDU-SessionID,
    qos-FlowUL-TrafficInfoList-r18        SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxNrofQFIs)) OF QOS-FlowUL-TrafficInfo-r18
}

QOS-FlowUL-TrafficInfo-r18 ::=        SEQUENCE {
    qfi-r18                               QFI,
    jitterRange-r18                       SEQUENCE {
        lowerBound-r18                        JitterBound-r18,
        upperBound-r18                        JitterBound-r18
    }                                                                                    OPTIONAL,
    burstArrivalTime-r18                  CHOICE {
        referenceTime                         ReferenceTime-r16,
        referenceSFN-AndSlot                  ReferenceSFN-AndSlot-r18
    }                                                                                    OPTIONAL,
    trafficPeriodicity-r18                INTEGER (1..640000)                            OPTIONAL,
    pdu-SetIdentification-r18             BOOLEAN                                        OPTIONAL,
    psi-Identification-r18                BOOLEAN                                        OPTIONAL,
    ...
}

ReferenceSFN-AndSlot-r18 ::= SEQUENCE {
     referenceSFN-r18                 INTEGER (0..1023),
     referenceSlot-r18                INTEGER (0..639)
}

JitterBound-r18 ::= ENUMERATED {ms0, ms0dot5, ms1, ms1dot5, ms2, ms2dot5, ms3, ms3dot5, ms4, ms4dot5, ms5, ms5dot5, ms6, ms6dot5, ms7, beyondMs7}

SL-PRS-UE-AssistanceInformationNR-r18 ::= SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxNrofSL-PRS-TxConfig-r18)) OF SL-PRS-TxInfo-r18

SL-PRS-TxInfo-r18 ::=                 SEQUENCE {
    sl-PRS-Periodicity-r18                ENUMERATED {ms100, ms200, ms300, ms400, ms500, ms600, ms700, ms800, ms900, ms1000, spare6,
                                                        spare5, spare4, spare3, spare2, spare1},
    sl-PRS-Priority-r18                   INTEGER (1..8)                                                            OPTIONAL,
    sl-PRS-DelayBudget-r18                INTEGER (0..1023)                                                         OPTIONAL,
    sl-PRS-Bandwidth-r18                  ENUMERATED {mhz5, mhz10, mhz15, mhz20, mhz25, mhz30, mhz35, mhz40,
                                                      mhz45, mhz50, mhz60, mhz70, mhz80, mhz90, mhz100, mhz200, mhz400,
                                                      spare15, spare14, spare13, spare12, spare11, spare10, spare9, spare8,
                                                      spare7, spare6, spare5, spare4, spare3, spare2, spare1}       OPTIONAL,
    ...

}

-- TAG-UEASSISTANCEINFORMATION-STOP
-- ASN1STOP



NOTE 1:	The field may also indicate the UE's preference on reduced configuration corresponding to the maximum number of SRS ports (i.e. nrofSRS-Ports) of each serving cell operating on the associated frequency range.





–	UECapabilityEnquiry
The UECapabilityEnquiry message is used to request UE radio access capabilities for NR as well as for other RATs.
Signalling radio bearer: SRB1
RLC-SAP: AM
Logical channel: DCCH
Direction: Network to UE
UECapabilityEnquiry message
-- ASN1START
-- TAG-UECAPABILITYENQUIRY-START

UECapabilityEnquiry ::=             SEQUENCE {
    rrc-TransactionIdentifier           RRC-TransactionIdentifier,
    criticalExtensions                  CHOICE {
        ueCapabilityEnquiry                 UECapabilityEnquiry-IEs,
        criticalExtensionsFuture            SEQUENCE {}
    }
}

UECapabilityEnquiry-IEs ::=         SEQUENCE {
    ue-CapabilityRAT-RequestList        UE-CapabilityRAT-RequestList,
    lateNonCriticalExtension            OCTET STRING                                                            OPTIONAL,
    ue-CapabilityEnquiryExt             OCTET STRING (CONTAINING UECapabilityEnquiry-v1560-IEs)                 OPTIONAL --  Need N
}

UECapabilityEnquiry-v1560-IEs ::=   SEQUENCE {
    capabilityRequestFilterCommon       UE-CapabilityRequestFilterCommon                                        OPTIONAL, -- Need N
    nonCriticalExtension                UECapabilityEnquiry-v1610-IEs                                           OPTIONAL
}

UECapabilityEnquiry-v1610-IEs ::=   SEQUENCE {
    rrc-SegAllowed-r16                  ENUMERATED {enabled}           OPTIONAL, -- Need N
    nonCriticalExtension                UECapabilityEnquiry-v17b0-IEs  OPTIONAL
}

UECapabilityEnquiry-v17b0-IEs ::=   SEQUENCE {
    rrc-MaxCapaSegAllowed-r17           INTEGER (2..16)                OPTIONAL, -- Need N
    nonCriticalExtension                SEQUENCE {}                    OPTIONAL
}

-- TAG-UECAPABILITYENQUIRY-STOP
-- ASN1STOP



–	UECapabilityInformation
The IE UECapabilityInformation message is used to transfer UE radio access capabilities requested by the network.
Signalling radio bearer: SRB1
RLC-SAP: AM
Logical channel: DCCH
Direction: UE to Network
UECapabilityInformation message
-- ASN1START
-- TAG-UECAPABILITYINFORMATION-START

UECapabilityInformation ::=         SEQUENCE {
    rrc-TransactionIdentifier           RRC-TransactionIdentifier,
    criticalExtensions                  CHOICE {
        ueCapabilityInformation             UECapabilityInformation-IEs,
        criticalExtensionsFuture            SEQUENCE {}
    }
}

UECapabilityInformation-IEs ::=     SEQUENCE {
    ue-CapabilityRAT-ContainerList      UE-CapabilityRAT-ContainerList                                          OPTIONAL,
    lateNonCriticalExtension            OCTET STRING                                                            OPTIONAL,
    nonCriticalExtension                SEQUENCE{}                                                              OPTIONAL
}

-- TAG-UECAPABILITYINFORMATION-STOP
-- ASN1STOP

–	UEInformationRequest
The UEInformationRequest message is used by the network to retrieve information from the UE.
Signalling radio bearer: SRB1
RLC-SAP: AM
Logical channel: DCCH
Direction: Network to UE
UEInformationRequest message
-- ASN1START
-- TAG-UEINFORMATIONREQUEST-START

UEInformationRequest-r16 ::=     SEQUENCE {
    rrc-TransactionIdentifier        RRC-TransactionIdentifier,
    criticalExtensions               CHOICE {
        ueInformationRequest-r16         UEInformationRequest-r16-IEs,
        criticalExtensionsFuture         SEQUENCE {}
    }
}

UEInformationRequest-r16-IEs ::= SEQUENCE {
    idleModeMeasurementReq-r16       ENUMERATED{true}                         OPTIONAL, -- Need N
    logMeasReportReq-r16             ENUMERATED {true}                        OPTIONAL, -- Need N
    connEstFailReportReq-r16         ENUMERATED {true}                        OPTIONAL, -- Need N
    ra-ReportReq-r16                 ENUMERATED {true}                        OPTIONAL, -- Need N
    rlf-ReportReq-r16                ENUMERATED {true}                        OPTIONAL, -- Need N
    mobilityHistoryReportReq-r16       ENUMERATED {true}                        OPTIONAL, -- Need N
    lateNonCriticalExtension         OCTET STRING                             OPTIONAL,
    nonCriticalExtension             UEInformationRequest-v1700-IEs           OPTIONAL
}

UEInformationRequest-v1700-IEs ::= SEQUENCE {
    successHO-ReportReq-r17          ENUMERATED {true}                        OPTIONAL, -- Need N
    coarseLocationRequest-r17        ENUMERATED {true}                        OPTIONAL, -- Need N
    nonCriticalExtension             UEInformationRequest-v1800-IEs           OPTIONAL
}

UEInformationRequest-v1800-IEs ::= SEQUENCE {
    flightPathInfoReq-r18            FlightPathInfoReportConfig-r18           OPTIONAL, -- Need N
    successPSCell-ReportReq-r18      ENUMERATED {true}                        OPTIONAL, -- Need N
    reselectionMeasurementReq-r18    ENUMERATED {true}                        OPTIONAL, -- Need N
    validatedMeasurementsReq-r18     ENUMERATED {true}                        OPTIONAL, -- Need N
    nonCriticalExtension             SEQUENCE {}                              OPTIONAL
}

FlightPathInfoReportConfig-r18 ::= SEQUENCE {
    maxWayPointNumber-r18             INTEGER (1..maxWayPoint-r18),
    includeTimeStamp-r18              ENUMERATED {true}                       OPTIONAL  -- Need N
}

-- TAG-UEINFORMATIONREQUEST-STOP
-- ASN1STOP





–	UEInformationResponse
The UEInformationResponse message is used by the UE to transfer information requested by the network.
Signalling radio bearer: SRB1 or SRB2 (when logged measurement information is included)
RLC-SAP: AM
Logical channel: DCCH
Direction: UE to network
UEInformationResponse message
-- ASN1START
-- TAG-UEINFORMATIONRESPONSE-START

UEInformationResponse-r16 ::=        SEQUENCE {
    rrc-TransactionIdentifier            RRC-TransactionIdentifier,
    criticalExtensions                   CHOICE {
        ueInformationResponse-r16            UEInformationResponse-r16-IEs,
        criticalExtensionsFuture             SEQUENCE {}
    }
}

UEInformationResponse-r16-IEs ::=    SEQUENCE {
    measResultIdleEUTRA-r16              MeasResultIdleEUTRA-r16             OPTIONAL,
    measResultIdleNR-r16                 MeasResultIdleNR-r16                OPTIONAL,
    logMeasReport-r16                    LogMeasReport-r16                   OPTIONAL,
    connEstFailReport-r16                ConnEstFailReport-r16               OPTIONAL,
    ra-ReportList-r16                    RA-ReportList-r16                   OPTIONAL,
    rlf-Report-r16                       RLF-Report-r16                      OPTIONAL,
    mobilityHistoryReport-r16            MobilityHistoryReport-r16           OPTIONAL,
    lateNonCriticalExtension             OCTET STRING                        OPTIONAL,
    nonCriticalExtension                 UEInformationResponse-v1700-IEs     OPTIONAL
}

UEInformationResponse-v1700-IEs ::=  SEQUENCE {
    successHO-Report-r17                 SuccessHO-Report-r17                OPTIONAL,
    connEstFailReportList-r17            ConnEstFailReportList-r17           OPTIONAL,
    coarseLocationInfo-r17               OCTET STRING                        OPTIONAL,
    nonCriticalExtension                 UEInformationResponse-v1800-IEs     OPTIONAL
}

UEInformationResponse-v1800-IEs ::=  SEQUENCE {
    flightPathInfoReport-r18             FlightPathInfoReport-r18            OPTIONAL,
    successPSCell-Report-r18             SuccessPSCell-Report-r18            OPTIONAL,
    measResultReselectionNR-r18          MeasResultIdleNR-r16                OPTIONAL,
    nonCriticalExtension                 SEQUENCE {}                         OPTIONAL
}

FlightPathInfoReport-r18 ::=         SEQUENCE (SIZE (0..maxWayPoint-r18)) OF WayPoint-r18

WayPoint-r18 ::=                     SEQUENCE {
    wayPointLocation-r18                 OCTET STRING,
    timeStamp-r18                        AbsoluteTimeInfo-r16                OPTIONAL
}

LogMeasReport-r16 ::=                SEQUENCE {
    absoluteTimeStamp-r16                AbsoluteTimeInfo-r16,
    traceReference-r16                   TraceReference-r16,
    traceRecordingSessionRef-r16         OCTET STRING (SIZE (2)),
    tce-Id-r16                           OCTET STRING (SIZE (1)),
    logMeasInfoList-r16                  LogMeasInfoList-r16,
    logMeasAvailable-r16                 ENUMERATED {true}                   OPTIONAL,
    logMeasAvailableBT-r16               ENUMERATED {true}                   OPTIONAL,
    logMeasAvailableWLAN-r16             ENUMERATED {true}                   OPTIONAL,
    ...
}

LogMeasInfoList-r16 ::=              SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxLogMeasReport-r16)) OF LogMeasInfo-r16

LogMeasInfo-r16 ::=                  SEQUENCE {
    locationInfo-r16                     LocationInfo-r16                    OPTIONAL,
    relativeTimeStamp-r16                INTEGER (0..7200),
    servCellIdentity-r16                 CGI-Info-Logging-r16                OPTIONAL,
    measResultServingCell-r16            MeasResultServingCell-r16           OPTIONAL,
    measResultNeighCells-r16             SEQUENCE {
        measResultNeighCellListNR            MeasResultListLogging2NR-r16    OPTIONAL,
        measResultNeighCellListEUTRA         MeasResultList2EUTRA-r16        OPTIONAL
    },
    anyCellSelectionDetected-r16         ENUMERATED {true}                   OPTIONAL,
    ...,
    [[
    inDeviceCoexDetected-r17             ENUMERATED {true}                   OPTIONAL
    ]]
}

ConnEstFailReport-r16 ::=            SEQUENCE {
    measResultFailedCell-r16             MeasResultFailedCell-r16,
    locationInfo-r16                     LocationInfo-r16                    OPTIONAL,
    measResultNeighCells-r16             SEQUENCE {
        measResultNeighCellListNR            MeasResultList2NR-r16               OPTIONAL,
        measResultNeighCellListEUTRA         MeasResultList2EUTRA-r16            OPTIONAL
    },
    numberOfConnFail-r16                 INTEGER (1..8),
    perRAInfoList-r16                            PerRAInfoList-r16,
    timeSinceFailure-r16                 TimeSinceFailure-r16,
    ...
}

ConnEstFailReportList-r17 ::= SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxCEFReport-r17)) OF ConnEstFailReport-r16

MeasResultServingCell-r16 ::=        SEQUENCE {
    resultsSSB-Cell                      MeasQuantityResults,
    resultsSSB                           SEQUENCE{
        best-ssb-Index                       SSB-Index,
        best-ssb-Results                     MeasQuantityResults,
        numberOfGoodSSB                      INTEGER (1..maxNrofSSBs-r16)
    }                                                                        OPTIONAL
}

MeasResultFailedCell-r16 ::=         SEQUENCE {
    cgi-Info                             CGI-Info-Logging-r16,
    measResult-r16                       SEQUENCE {
        cellResults-r16                      SEQUENCE{
            resultsSSB-Cell-r16                  MeasQuantityResults
        },
        rsIndexResults-r16                   SEQUENCE{
            resultsSSB-Indexes-r16               ResultsPerSSB-IndexList
        }
    }
}

RA-ReportList-r16 ::= SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxRAReport-r16)) OF RA-Report-r16

RA-Report-r16 ::=                    SEQUENCE {
    cellId-r16                           CHOICE {
        cellGlobalId-r16                     CGI-Info-Logging-r16,
        pci-arfcn-r16                        PCI-ARFCN-NR-r16
    },
    ra-InformationCommon-r16             RA-InformationCommon-r16                         OPTIONAL,
    raPurpose-r16                        ENUMERATED {accessRelated, beamFailureRecovery, reconfigurationWithSync, ulUnSynchronized,
                                                    schedulingRequestFailure, noPUCCHResourceAvailable, requestForOtherSI,
                                                    msg3RequestForOtherSI-r17, lbt-Failure-r18, spare7, spare6, spare5, spare4, spare3,
                                                    spare2, spare1},
    ...,
    [[
    spCellID-r17                         CGI-Info-Logging-r16                             OPTIONAL
    ]],
    [[
    sdt-Failed-r18                       ENUMERATED {true}                                OPTIONAL
    ]]
}

RA-InformationCommon-r16 ::=         SEQUENCE {
    absoluteFrequencyPointA-r16          ARFCN-ValueNR,
    locationAndBandwidth-r16             INTEGER (0..37949),
    subcarrierSpacing-r16                SubcarrierSpacing,
    msg1-FrequencyStart-r16              INTEGER (0..maxNrofPhysicalResourceBlocks-1)     OPTIONAL,
    msg1-FrequencyStartCFRA-r16          INTEGER (0..maxNrofPhysicalResourceBlocks-1)     OPTIONAL,
    msg1-SubcarrierSpacing-r16           SubcarrierSpacing                                OPTIONAL,
    msg1-SubcarrierSpacingCFRA-r16       SubcarrierSpacing                                OPTIONAL,
    msg1-FDM-r16                         ENUMERATED {one, two, four, eight}               OPTIONAL,
    msg1-FDMCFRA-r16                     ENUMERATED {one, two, four, eight}               OPTIONAL,
    perRAInfoList-r16                    PerRAInfoList-r16,
    ...,
    [[
    perRAInfoList-v1660                  PerRAInfoList-v1660                              OPTIONAL
    ]],
    [[
    msg1-SCS-From-prach-ConfigurationIndex-r16  ENUMERATED {kHz1dot25, kHz5, spare2, spare1}  OPTIONAL
    ]],
    [[
    msg1-SCS-From-prach-ConfigurationIndexCFRA-r16  ENUMERATED {kHz1dot25, kHz5, spare2, spare1} OPTIONAL
    ]],
    [[
    msgA-RO-FrequencyStart-r17           INTEGER (0..maxNrofPhysicalResourceBlocks-1)     OPTIONAL,
    msgA-RO-FrequencyStartCFRA-r17       INTEGER (0..maxNrofPhysicalResourceBlocks-1)     OPTIONAL,
    msgA-SubcarrierSpacing-r17           SubcarrierSpacing                                OPTIONAL,
    msgA-RO-FDM-r17                      ENUMERATED {one, two, four, eight}               OPTIONAL,
    msgA-RO-FDMCFRA-r17                  ENUMERATED {one, two, four, eight}               OPTIONAL,
    msgA-SCS-From-prach-ConfigurationIndex-r17  ENUMERATED {kHz1dot25, kHz5, spare2, spare1}  OPTIONAL,
    msgA-TransMax-r17                    ENUMERATED {n1, n2, n4, n6, n8, n10, n20, n50, n100, n200}  OPTIONAL,
    msgA-MCS-r17                         INTEGER (0..15)                                   OPTIONAL,
    nrofPRBs-PerMsgA-PO-r17              INTEGER (1..32)                                  OPTIONAL,
    msgA-PUSCH-TimeDomainAllocation-r17  INTEGER (1..maxNrofUL-Allocations)               OPTIONAL,
    frequencyStartMsgA-PUSCH-r17         INTEGER (0..maxNrofPhysicalResourceBlocks-1)     OPTIONAL,
    nrofMsgA-PO-FDM-r17                  ENUMERATED {one, two, four, eight}               OPTIONAL,
    dlPathlossRSRP-r17                   RSRP-Range                                       OPTIONAL,
    intendedSIBs-r17                     SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxSIB)) OF SIB-Type-r17      OPTIONAL,
    ssbsForSI-Acquisition-r17            SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxNrofSSBs-r16)) OF SSB-Index    OPTIONAL,
    msgA-PUSCH-PayloadSize-r17           BIT STRING (SIZE (5))                            OPTIONAL,
    onDemandSISuccess-r17                ENUMERATED {true}                                OPTIONAL
    ]],
    [[
    usedFeatureCombination-r18           ReportedFeatureCombination-r18                   OPTIONAL,
    triggeredFeatureCombination-r18      ReportedFeatureCombination-r18                   OPTIONAL,
    startPreambleForThisPartition-r18    INTEGER (0..63)                                  OPTIONAL,
    numberOfPreamblesPerSSB-ForThisPartition-r18  INTEGER (1..64)                         OPTIONAL,
    attemptedBWP-InfoList-r18            SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxNrofBWPs)) OF AttemptedBWP-Info-r18  OPTIONAL,
    numberOfLBT-Failures-r18             INTEGER (1..128)                                 OPTIONAL,
    perRAInfoList-v1800                  PerRAInfoList-v1800                              OPTIONAL,
    intendedSIBs-r18                     SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxSIB)) OF SIB-Type-r18      OPTIONAL
    ]]
}

AttemptedBWP-Info-r18 ::=            SEQUENCE {
    locationAndBandwidth-r18             INTEGER (0..37949),
    subcarrierSpacing-r18                SubcarrierSpacing
}

ReportedFeatureCombination-r18 ::=   SEQUENCE {
    redCap-r18                           ENUMERATED {true}                                OPTIONAL,
    smallData-r18                        ENUMERATED {true}                                OPTIONAL,
    nsag-r18                             NSAG-List-r17                                    OPTIONAL,
    msg3-Repetitions-r18                 ENUMERATED {true}                                OPTIONAL,
    msg1-Repetitions-r18                 ENUMERATED {true}                                OPTIONAL,
    eRedCap-r18                          ENUMERATED {true}                                OPTIONAL,
    triggered-S-NSSAI-List-r18           SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxNrofS-NSSAI)) OF S-NSSAI   OPTIONAL
}

PerRAInfoList-r16 ::= SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..200)) OF PerRAInfo-r16

PerRAInfoList-v1660 ::= SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..200)) OF PerRACSI-RSInfo-v1660

PerRAInfo-r16 ::=                    CHOICE {
    perRASSBInfoList-r16                 PerRASSBInfo-r16,
    perRACSI-RSInfoList-r16              PerRACSI-RSInfo-r16
}

PerRAInfoList-v1800 ::= SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..200)) OF PerRAInfo-v1800

PerRAInfo-v1800 ::=                  CHOICE {
    perRASSBInfoList-v1800               PerRASSBInfo-v1800,
    perRACSI-RSInfoList-v1800            PerRACSI-RSInfo-v1800
}

PerRASSBInfo-r16 ::=                 SEQUENCE {
    ssb-Index-r16                        SSB-Index,
    numberOfPreamblesSentOnSSB-r16       INTEGER (1..200),
    perRAAttemptInfoList-r16             PerRAAttemptInfoList-r16
}

PerRASSBInfo-v1800 ::=               SEQUENCE {
    allPreamblesBlocked                  ENUMERATED {true}                                OPTIONAL,
    lbt-Detected-r18                     ENUMERATED {true}                                OPTIONAL,
    ...
}

PerRACSI-RSInfo-r16 ::=              SEQUENCE {
    csi-RS-Index-r16                     CSI-RS-Index,
    numberOfPreamblesSentOnCSI-RS-r16    INTEGER (1..200)
}

PerRACSI-RSInfo-v1660 ::=            SEQUENCE {
    csi-RS-Index-v1660                   INTEGER (1..96)                                  OPTIONAL
}

PerRACSI-RSInfo-v1800 ::=            SEQUENCE {
    allPreamblesBlocked                  ENUMERATED {true}                                OPTIONAL,
    lbt-Detected-r18                     ENUMERATED {true}                                OPTIONAL,
    ...
}

PerRAAttemptInfoList-r16 ::=         SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..200)) OF PerRAAttemptInfo-r16

PerRAAttemptInfo-r16 ::=             SEQUENCE {
    contentionDetected-r16               BOOLEAN                OPTIONAL,
    dlRSRPAboveThreshold-r16             BOOLEAN                OPTIONAL,
    ...,
    [[
    fallbackToFourStepRA-r17             ENUMERATED {true}      OPTIONAL
    ]]
}

SIB-Type-r17 ::= ENUMERATED {sibType2, sibType3, sibType4, sibType5, sibType9, sibType10, sibType11, sibType12,
                             sibType13, sibType14, posSIB-v1810, spare5, spare4, spare3, spare2, spare1}

SIB-Type-r18 ::= ENUMERATED {sibType15, sibType16, sibType17, sibType18, sibType19, sibType20,
                             sibType21, sibType22, sibType23, sibType24, sibType25, spare5, spare4,
                             spare3, spare2, spare1}

RLF-Report-r16 ::=                   CHOICE {
    nr-RLF-Report-r16                    SEQUENCE {
        measResultLastServCell-r16           MeasResultRLFNR-r16,
        measResultNeighCells-r16             SEQUENCE {
            measResultListNR-r16                 MeasResultList2NR-r16       OPTIONAL,
            measResultListEUTRA-r16              MeasResultList2EUTRA-r16    OPTIONAL
        }                                                OPTIONAL,
        c-RNTI-r16                           RNTI-Value,
        previousPCellId-r16                  CHOICE {
            nrPreviousCell-r16                   CGI-Info-Logging-r16,
            eutraPreviousCell-r16                CGI-InfoEUTRALogging
        }                                                                    OPTIONAL,
        failedPCellId-r16                    CHOICE {
            nrFailedPCellId-r16                  CHOICE {
                cellGlobalId-r16                     CGI-Info-Logging-r16,
                pci-arfcn-r16                        PCI-ARFCN-NR-r16
            },
            eutraFailedPCellId-r16           CHOICE {
                cellGlobalId-r16                 CGI-InfoEUTRALogging,
                pci-arfcn-r16                    PCI-ARFCN-EUTRA-r16
            }
        },
        reconnectCellId-r16                  CHOICE {
            nrReconnectCellId-r16                CGI-Info-Logging-r16,
            eutraReconnectCellId-r16             CGI-InfoEUTRALogging
        }                                                                                        OPTIONAL,
        timeUntilReconnection-r16            TimeUntilReconnection-r16                           OPTIONAL,
        reestablishmentCellId-r16            CGI-Info-Logging-r16                                OPTIONAL,
        timeConnFailure-r16                  INTEGER (0..1023)                                   OPTIONAL,
        timeSinceFailure-r16                 TimeSinceFailure-r16,
        connectionFailureType-r16            ENUMERATED {rlf, hof},
        rlf-Cause-r16                        ENUMERATED {t310-Expiry, randomAccessProblem, rlc-MaxNumRetx,
                                                         beamFailureRecoveryFailure, lbtFailure-r16,
                                                         bh-rlfRecoveryFailure, t312-expiry-r17, spare1},
        locationInfo-r16                     LocationInfo-r16                                    OPTIONAL,
        noSuitableCellFound-r16              ENUMERATED {true}                                   OPTIONAL,
        ra-InformationCommon-r16             RA-InformationCommon-r16                            OPTIONAL,
        ...,
        [[
        csi-rsRLMConfigBitmap-v1650          BIT STRING (SIZE (96))                              OPTIONAL
        ]],
        [[
        lastHO-Type-r17                      ENUMERATED {cho, daps, spare2, spare1}              OPTIONAL,
        timeConnSourceDAPS-Failure-r17       TimeConnSourceDAPS-Failure-r17                      OPTIONAL,
        timeSinceCHO-Reconfig-r17            TimeSinceCHO-Reconfig-r17                           OPTIONAL,
        choCellId-r17                        CHOICE {
            cellGlobalId-r17                     CGI-Info-Logging-r16,
            pci-arfcn-r17                        PCI-ARFCN-NR-r16
        }                                                                                        OPTIONAL,
        choCandidateCellList-r17             ChoCandidateCellList-r17                            OPTIONAL
        ]],
        [[
        pSCellId-r18                         CHOICE {
            cellGlobalId-r18                     CGI-Info-Logging-r16,
            pci-arfcn-r18                        PCI-ARFCN-NR-r16
        }                                                                                        OPTIONAL,
        mcg-RecoveryFailureCause-r18         ENUMERATED {t316-Expiry, scg-Deactivated, spare2, spare1}  OPTIONAL,
        scg-FailureCause-r18                 ENUMERATED {t310-Expiry, randomAccessProblem, rlc-MaxNumRetx,
                                                         synchReconfigFailureSCG, scg-ReconfigFailure,
                                                         srb3-IntegrityFailure, scg-lbtFailure, beamFailureRecoveryFailure,
                                                         t312-Expiry, bh-RLF, beamFailure, spare5, spare4, spare3, spare2, spare1 }
                                                                                                 OPTIONAL,
        elapsedTimeSCG-Failure-r18           ElapsedTimeSCG-Failure-r18                          OPTIONAL,
        voiceFallbackHO-r18                  ENUMERATED {true}                                   OPTIONAL,
        measResultLastServCellRSSI-r18     RSSI-Range-r16                                      OPTIONAL,
        measResultNeighFreqListRSSI-r18    MeasResultNeighFreqListRSSI-r18                     OPTIONAL,
        bwp-Info-r18                         AttemptedBWP-Info-r18                               OPTIONAL,
        elapsedTimeT316-r18                  ElapsedTimeT316-r18                                 OPTIONAL,
        scg-FailedAfterMCG-r18               ENUMERATED {true}                                   OPTIONAL         ]]
    },
    eutra-RLF-Report-r16                 SEQUENCE {
        failedPCellId-EUTRA                  CGI-InfoEUTRALogging,
        measResult-RLF-Report-EUTRA-r16      OCTET STRING,
        ...,
        [[
        measResult-RLF-Report-EUTRA-v1690    OCTET STRING                                        OPTIONAL
        ]]
    }
}

SuccessHO-Report-r17 ::=                 SEQUENCE {
    sourceCellInfo-r17                       SEQUENCE {
        sourcePCellId-r17                        CGI-Info-Logging-r16,
        sourceCellMeas-r17                       MeasResultSuccessHONR-r17                       OPTIONAL,
        rlf-InSourceDAPS-r17                     ENUMERATED {true}                               OPTIONAL
    },
    targetCellInfo-r17                       SEQUENCE {
        targetPCellId-r17                        CGI-Info-Logging-r16,
        targetCellMeas-r17                       MeasResultSuccessHONR-r17                       OPTIONAL
    },
    measResultNeighCells-r17                 SEQUENCE {
        measResultListNR-r17                     MeasResultList2NR-r16                           OPTIONAL,
        measResultListEUTRA-r17                  MeasResultList2EUTRA-r16                        OPTIONAL
    }                                                                                            OPTIONAL,
    locationInfo-r17                         LocationInfo-r16                                    OPTIONAL,
    timeSinceCHO-Reconfig-r17                TimeSinceCHO-Reconfig-r17                           OPTIONAL,
    shr-Cause-r17                            SHR-Cause-r17                                       OPTIONAL,
    ra-InformationCommon-r17                 RA-InformationCommon-r16                            OPTIONAL,
    upInterruptionTimeAtHO-r17               UPInterruptionTimeAtHO-r17                          OPTIONAL,
    c-RNTI-r17                               RNTI-Value                                          OPTIONAL,
    ...,
    [[
    targetCell-PCI-ARFCN-r17                 PCI-ARFCN-NR-r16                                    OPTIONAL
    ]],
    [[
    eutra-TargetCellInfo-r18                 SEQUENCE {
        targetPCellId-r18                        CHOICE {
            cellGlobalId-r18                         CGI-Info-Logging-r16,
            pci-arfcn-r18                            PCI-ARFCN-EUTRA-r16
        },
        targetCellMeas-r18                       MeasQuantityResultsEUTRA                       OPTIONAL
    }                                                                                           OPTIONAL,
    measResultServCellRSSI-r18                   RSSI-Range-r16                                 OPTIONAL,
    measResultNeighFreqListRSSI-r18              MeasResultNeighFreqListRSSI-r18                OPTIONAL,
    eutra-C-RNTI-r18                             EUTRA-C-RNTI                                   OPTIONAL,
    timeSinceSHR-r18                             TimeSinceSHR-r18                               OPTIONAL
    ]]
}

SuccessPSCell-Report-r18 ::=             SEQUENCE {
    pCellId-r18                              CGI-Info-Logging-r16,
    sourcePSCellInfo-r18                     SEQUENCE {
        sourcePSCellId-r18                       CHOICE {
            cellGlobalId-r18                         CGI-Info-Logging-r16,
            pci-arfcn-r18                            PCI-ARFCN-EUTRA-r16
        },
        sourcePSCellMeas-r18                     MeasResultSuccessHONR-r17                       OPTIONAL
    }                                                                                            OPTIONAL,
    targetPSCellInfo-r18                     SEQUENCE {
        targetPSCellId-r18                       CHOICE {
                cellGlobalId-r18                     CGI-Info-Logging-r16,
                pci-arfcn-r18                        PCI-ARFCN-NR-r16
        },
        targetPSCellMeas-r18                     MeasResultSuccessHONR-r17                       OPTIONAL
    },
    measResultNeighCells-r18                 SEQUENCE {
        measResultListNR-r18                     MeasResultList2NR-r16                           OPTIONAL,
        measResultListEUTRA-r18                  MeasResultList2EUTRA-r16                        OPTIONAL
    }                                                                                            OPTIONAL,
    spr-Cause-r18                            SPR-Cause-r18                                       OPTIONAL,
    timeSinceCPAC-Reconfig-r18               TimeSinceCPAC-Reconfig-r18                          OPTIONAL,
    locationInfo-r18                         LocationInfo-r16                                    OPTIONAL,
    ra-InformationCommon-r18                 RA-InformationCommon-r16                            OPTIONAL,
    sn-InitiatedPSCellChange-r18             ENUMERATED {true}                                   OPTIONAL,
...
}

MeasResultNeighFreqListRSSI-r18 ::=      SEQUENCE(SIZE (1..maxFreq)) OF MeasResultNeighFreqRSSI-r18

MeasResultNeighFreqRSSI-r18 ::=          SEQUENCE {
    ssbFrequency-r18                         ARFCN-ValueNR                                       OPTIONAL,
    ssbSubcarrierSpacing-r18                 SubcarrierSpacing                                   OPTIONAL,
    refFreqCSI-RS-r18                        ARFCN-ValueNR                                       OPTIONAL,
    measResult-RSSI-r18                      RSSI-Range-r16                                      OPTIONAL
}

MeasResultList2NR-r16 ::=            SEQUENCE(SIZE (1..maxFreq)) OF MeasResult2NR-r16
MeasResultList2EUTRA-r16 ::=         SEQUENCE(SIZE (1..maxFreq)) OF MeasResult2EUTRA-r16

MeasResult2NR-r16 ::=                SEQUENCE {
    ssbFrequency-r16                     ARFCN-ValueNR                                           OPTIONAL,
    refFreqCSI-RS-r16                    ARFCN-ValueNR                                           OPTIONAL,
    measResultList-r16                   MeasResultListNR
}

MeasResultListLogging2NR-r16 ::=     SEQUENCE(SIZE (1..maxFreq)) OF MeasResultLogging2NR-r16

MeasResultLogging2NR-r16 ::=         SEQUENCE {
    carrierFreq-r16                      ARFCN-ValueNR,
    measResultListLoggingNR-r16          MeasResultListLoggingNR-r16
}

MeasResultListLoggingNR-r16 ::=      SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxCellReport)) OF MeasResultLoggingNR-r16

MeasResultLoggingNR-r16 ::=          SEQUENCE {
    physCellId-r16                       PhysCellId,
    resultsSSB-Cell-r16                  MeasQuantityResults,
    numberOfGoodSSB-r16                  INTEGER (1..maxNrofSSBs-r16) OPTIONAL
}

MeasResult2EUTRA-r16 ::=             SEQUENCE {
    carrierFreq-r16                      ARFCN-ValueEUTRA,
    measResultList-r16                   MeasResultListEUTRA
}

MeasResultRLFNR-r16 ::=              SEQUENCE {
    measResult-r16                       SEQUENCE {
        cellResults-r16                      SEQUENCE{
            resultsSSB-Cell-r16                  MeasQuantityResults                             OPTIONAL,
            resultsCSI-RS-Cell-r16               MeasQuantityResults                             OPTIONAL
        },
        rsIndexResults-r16                   SEQUENCE{
            resultsSSB-Indexes-r16               ResultsPerSSB-IndexList                         OPTIONAL,
            ssbRLMConfigBitmap-r16               BIT STRING (SIZE (64))                          OPTIONAL,
            resultsCSI-RS-Indexes-r16            ResultsPerCSI-RS-IndexList                      OPTIONAL,
            csi-rsRLMConfigBitmap-r16            BIT STRING (SIZE (96))                          OPTIONAL
        }                                                                                    OPTIONAL
    }
}

MeasResultSuccessHONR-r17::=         SEQUENCE {
    measResult-r17                       SEQUENCE {
        cellResults-r17                      SEQUENCE{
            resultsSSB-Cell-r17                  MeasQuantityResults                             OPTIONAL,
            resultsCSI-RS-Cell-r17               MeasQuantityResults                             OPTIONAL
        },
        rsIndexResults-r17                   SEQUENCE{
            resultsSSB-Indexes-r17               ResultsPerSSB-IndexList                         OPTIONAL,
            resultsCSI-RS-Indexes-r17            ResultsPerCSI-RS-IndexList                      OPTIONAL
        }
    }
}

ChoCandidateCellList-r17 ::=         SEQUENCE(SIZE (1..maxNrofCondCells-r16)) OF ChoCandidateCell-r17

ChoCandidateCell-r17 ::=             CHOICE {
    cellGlobalId-r17                     CGI-Info-Logging-r16,
    pci-arfcn-r17                        PCI-ARFCN-NR-r16
}

SHR-Cause-r17 ::=                    SEQUENCE {
    t304-cause-r17                       ENUMERATED {true}                                       OPTIONAL,
    t310-cause-r17                       ENUMERATED {true}                                       OPTIONAL,
    t312-cause-r17                       ENUMERATED {true}                                       OPTIONAL,
    sourceDAPS-Failure-r17               ENUMERATED {true}                                       OPTIONAL,
    ...
}

SPR-Cause-r18 ::=                    SEQUENCE {
    t304-cause-r18                       ENUMERATED {true}                                       OPTIONAL,
    t310-cause-r18                       ENUMERATED {true}                                       OPTIONAL,
    t312-cause-r18                       ENUMERATED {true}                                       OPTIONAL,
    ...
}

TimeSinceFailure-r16 ::= INTEGER (0..172800)

MobilityHistoryReport-r16 ::= VisitedCellInfoList-r16

TimeUntilReconnection-r16 ::= INTEGER (0..172800)

TimeSinceCHO-Reconfig-r17 ::= INTEGER (0..1023)

TimeSinceCPAC-Reconfig-r18 ::= INTEGER (0.. 1023)

TimeConnSourceDAPS-Failure-r17 ::= INTEGER (0..1023)

UPInterruptionTimeAtHO-r17 ::= INTEGER (0..1023)

ElapsedTimeT316-r18 ::= INTEGER (0..2000)

ElapsedTimeSCG-Failure-r18 ::= INTEGER (0..1023)

TimeSinceSHR-r18 ::= INTEGER (0..172800)

-- TAG-UEINFORMATIONRESPONSE-STOP
-- ASN1STOP



















–	UEPositioningAssistanceInfo
The UEPositioningAssistanceInfo message is used to provide positioning assistance information as requested by the Network.
Signalling radio bearer: SRB1
RLC-SAP: AM
Logical channel: DCCH
Direction: UE to Network
UEPositioningAssistanceInfo message
-- ASN1START
-- TAG-UEPOSITIONINGASSISTANCEINFO-START

UEPositioningAssistanceInfo-r17 ::= SEQUENCE {
    criticalExtensions                  CHOICE {
        uePositioningAssistanceInfo-r17     UEPositioningAssistanceInfo-r17-IEs,
        criticalExtensionsFuture            SEQUENCE {}
    }
}

UEPositioningAssistanceInfo-r17-IEs ::= SEQUENCE {
    ue-TxTEG-AssociationList-r17            UE-TxTEG-AssociationList-r17          OPTIONAL,
    lateNonCriticalExtension                OCTET STRING                          OPTIONAL,
    nonCriticalExtension                    UEPositioningAssistanceInfo-v1720-IEs OPTIONAL
}

UEPositioningAssistanceInfo-v1720-IEs::=    SEQUENCE {
    ue-TxTEG-TimingErrorMarginValue-r17         ENUMERATED {tc0, tc2, tc4, tc6, tc8, tc12, tc16, tc20, tc24, tc32, tc40, tc48, tc56,
                                                            tc64, tc72, tc80}                                      OPTIONAL,
    nonCriticalExtension                        SEQUENCE {}                                                        OPTIONAL
}

UE-TxTEG-AssociationList-r17 ::= SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxNrOfTxTEGReport-r17)) OF UE-TxTEG-Association-r17

UE-TxTEG-Association-r17 ::=        SEQUENCE {
    ue-TxTEG-ID-r17                     INTEGER (0..maxNrOfTxTEG-ID-1-r17),
    nr-TimeStamp-r17                    NR-TimeStamp-r17,
    associatedSRS-PosResourceIdList-r17 SEQUENCE (SIZE(1..maxNrofSRS-PosResources-r16)) OF SRS-PosResourceId-r16,
    servCellId-r17                      ServCellIndex                            OPTIONAL
}

NR-TimeStamp-r17 ::= SEQUENCE {
    nr-SFN-r17           INTEGER (0..1023),
    nr-Slot-r17          CHOICE {
        scs15-r17            INTEGER (0..9),
        scs30-r17            INTEGER (0..19),
        scs60-r17            INTEGER (0..39),
        scs120-r17           INTEGER (0..79)
    },
    ...
}

-- TAG-UEPOSITIONINGASSISTANCEINFO-STOP
-- ASN1STOP



–	ULDedicatedMessageSegment
The ULDedicatedMessageSegment message is used to transfer segments of the UECapabilityInformation or MeasurementReportAppLayer message. SRB1 is used at transfer of segments of UECapabilityInformation and SRB4 or SRB5 is used at transfer of segments of MeasurementReportAppLayer.
Signalling radio bearer: SRB1, SRB4 or SRB5
RLC-SAP: AM
Logical channel: DCCH
Direction: UE to Network
ULDedicatedMessageSegment message
-- ASN1START
-- TAG-ULDEDICATEDMESSAGESEGMENT-START

ULDedicatedMessageSegment-r16 ::=       SEQUENCE {
    criticalExtensions                      CHOICE {
        ulDedicatedMessageSegment-r16           ULDedicatedMessageSegment-r16-IEs,
        criticalExtensionsFuture                SEQUENCE {}
    }
}

ULDedicatedMessageSegment-r16-IEs ::=     SEQUENCE {
    segmentNumber-r16                         INTEGER (0..15),
    rrc-MessageSegmentContainer-r16           OCTET STRING,
    rrc-MessageSegmentType-r16                ENUMERATED {notLastSegment, lastSegment},
    lateNonCriticalExtension                  OCTET STRING                                  OPTIONAL,
    nonCriticalExtension                      SEQUENCE {}                                   OPTIONAL
}

-- TAG-ULDEDICATEDMESSAGESEGMENT-STOP
-- ASN1STOP



–	ULInformationTransfer
The ULInformationTransfer message is used for the uplink transfer of NAS or non-3GPP dedicated information, or IAB-DU specific F1-C related information.
Signalling radio bearer: SRB2 or SRB1 (only if SRB2 not established yet). If SRB2 is suspended, the UE does not send this message until SRB2 is resumed. If only dedicatedInfoF1c is included, SRB2 is used.
RLC-SAP: AM
Logical channel: DCCH
Direction: UE to network
ULInformationTransfer message
-- ASN1START
-- TAG-ULINFORMATIONTRANSFER-START

ULInformationTransfer ::=           SEQUENCE {
    criticalExtensions                  CHOICE {
        ulInformationTransfer               ULInformationTransfer-IEs,
        criticalExtensionsFuture            SEQUENCE {}
    }
}

ULInformationTransfer-IEs ::=       SEQUENCE {
    dedicatedNAS-Message                DedicatedNAS-Message                OPTIONAL,
    lateNonCriticalExtension            OCTET STRING                        OPTIONAL,
    nonCriticalExtension                ULInformationTransfer-v1700-IEs     OPTIONAL
}

ULInformationTransfer-v1700-IEs ::=       SEQUENCE {
    dedicatedInfoF1c-r17                      DedicatedInfoF1c-r17                OPTIONAL,
    nonCriticalExtension                      SEQUENCE {}                         OPTIONAL
}

-- TAG-ULINFORMATIONTRANSFER-STOP
-- ASN1STOP

–	ULInformationTransferIRAT
The ULInformationTransferIRAT message is used for the uplink transfer of information terminated at NR MCG but specified by another RAT. In this version of the specification, the message is used for V2X sidelink communication messages specified in TS 36.331 [10].
Signalling radio bearer: SRB1
RLC-SAP: AM
Logical channel: DCCH
Direction: UE to network
ULInformationTransferIRAT message
-- ASN1START
-- TAG-ULINFORMATIONTRANSFERIRAT-START

ULInformationTransferIRAT-r16 ::=              SEQUENCE {
    criticalExtensions                                CHOICE {
        c1                                                   CHOICE {
            ulInformationTransferIRAT-r16                    ULInformationTransferIRAT-r16-IEs,
            spare3 NULL, spare2 NULL, spare1 NULL
        },
        criticalExtensionsFuture                     SEQUENCE {}
    }
}

ULInformationTransferIRAT-r16-IEs ::=        SEQUENCE {
    ul-DCCH-MessageEUTRA-r16                           OCTET STRING             OPTIONAL,
    lateNonCriticalExtension                           OCTET STRING              OPTIONAL,
    nonCriticalExtension                                SEQUENCE {}               OPTIONAL
}

-- TAG-ULINFORMATIONTRANSFERIRAT-STOP
-- ASN1STOP



–	ULInformationTransferMRDC
The ULInformationTransferMRDC message is used for the uplink transfer of MR-DC dedicated information (e.g. for transferring the NR or E-UTRA RRC MeasurementReport message, the FailureInformation message, the UEAssistanceInformation message, the RRCReconfigurationComplete message, the IABOtherInformation message or the NR or E-UTRA RRC MCGFailureInformation message).
Signalling radio bearer: SRB1, SRB3
RLC-SAP: AM
Logical channel: DCCH
Direction: UE to Network
ULInformationTransferMRDC message
-- ASN1START
-- TAG-ULINFORMATIONTRANSFERMRDC-START

ULInformationTransferMRDC ::=               SEQUENCE {
    criticalExtensions                          CHOICE {
        c1                                          CHOICE {
            ulInformationTransferMRDC                   ULInformationTransferMRDC-IEs,
            spare3 NULL, spare2 NULL, spare1 NULL
        },
        criticalExtensionsFuture            SEQUENCE {}
    }
}

ULInformationTransferMRDC-IEs::=           SEQUENCE {
    ul-DCCH-MessageNR                           OCTET STRING                    OPTIONAL,
    ul-DCCH-MessageEUTRA                        OCTET STRING                    OPTIONAL,
    lateNonCriticalExtension                    OCTET STRING                    OPTIONAL,
    nonCriticalExtension                        SEQUENCE {}                     OPTIONAL
}

-- TAG-ULINFORMATIONTRANSFERMRDC-STOP
-- ASN1STOP



6.3	RRC information elements
6.3.0	Parameterized types
–	SetupRelease
SetupRelease allows the ElementTypeParam to be used as the referenced data type for the setup and release entries. See A.3.8 for guidelines.
-- ASN1START
-- TAG-SETUPRELEASE-START

SetupRelease { ElementTypeParam } ::= CHOICE {
    release         NULL,
    setup           ElementTypeParam
}

-- TAG-SETUPRELEASE-STOP
-- ASN1STOP

6.3.1	System information blocks
–	SIB2
SIB2 contains cell re-selection information common for intra-frequency, inter-frequency and/or inter-RAT cell re-selection (i.e. applicable for more than one type of cell re-selection but not necessarily all) as well as intra-frequency cell re-selection information other than neighbouring cell related.
SIB2 information element
-- ASN1START
-- TAG-SIB2-START

SIB2 ::=                            SEQUENCE {
    cellReselectionInfoCommon           SEQUENCE {
        nrofSS-BlocksToAverage              INTEGER (2..maxNrofSS-BlocksToAverage)          OPTIONAL,       -- Need S
        absThreshSS-BlocksConsolidation     ThresholdNR                                     OPTIONAL,       -- Need S
        rangeToBestCell                     RangeToBestCell                                 OPTIONAL,       -- Need R
        q-Hyst                              ENUMERATED {
                                                dB0, dB1, dB2, dB3, dB4, dB5, dB6, dB8, dB10,
                                                dB12, dB14, dB16, dB18, dB20, dB22, dB24},
        speedStateReselectionPars           SEQUENCE {
            mobilityStateParameters             MobilityStateParameters,
            q-HystSF                        SEQUENCE {
                sf-Medium                       ENUMERATED {dB-6, dB-4, dB-2, dB0},
                sf-High                         ENUMERATED {dB-6, dB-4, dB-2, dB0}
            }
        }                                                                                   OPTIONAL,       -- Need R
    ...
    },
    cellReselectionServingFreqInfo      SEQUENCE {
        s-NonIntraSearchP                   ReselectionThreshold                            OPTIONAL,       -- Need S
        s-NonIntraSearchQ                   ReselectionThresholdQ                           OPTIONAL,       -- Need S
        threshServingLowP                   ReselectionThreshold,
        threshServingLowQ                   ReselectionThresholdQ                           OPTIONAL,       -- Need R
        cellReselectionPriority             CellReselectionPriority,
        cellReselectionSubPriority          CellReselectionSubPriority                      OPTIONAL,       -- Need R
        ...
    },
    intraFreqCellReselectionInfo        SEQUENCE {
        q-RxLevMin                          Q-RxLevMin,
        q-RxLevMinSUL                       Q-RxLevMin                                      OPTIONAL,       -- Need R
        q-QualMin                           Q-QualMin                                       OPTIONAL,       -- Need S
        s-IntraSearchP                      ReselectionThreshold,
        s-IntraSearchQ                      ReselectionThresholdQ                           OPTIONAL,       -- Need S
        t-ReselectionNR                     T-Reselection,
        frequencyBandList                   MultiFrequencyBandListNR-SIB                    OPTIONAL,       -- Need S
        frequencyBandListSUL                MultiFrequencyBandListNR-SIB                    OPTIONAL,       -- Need R
        p-Max                               P-Max                                           OPTIONAL,       -- Need S
        smtc                                SSB-MTC                                         OPTIONAL,       -- Need S
        ss-RSSI-Measurement                 SS-RSSI-Measurement                             OPTIONAL,       -- Need R
        ssb-ToMeasure                       SSB-ToMeasure                                   OPTIONAL,       -- Need S
        deriveSSB-IndexFromCell             BOOLEAN,
        ...,
        [[
        t-ReselectionNR-SF                  SpeedStateScaleFactors                          OPTIONAL        -- Need R
        ]],
        [[
        smtc2-LP-r16                        SSB-MTC2-LP-r16                                 OPTIONAL,        -- Need R
        ssb-PositionQCL-Common-r16          SSB-PositionQCL-Relation-r16                    OPTIONAL         -- Cond SharedSpectrum
        ]],
        [[
        ssb-PositionQCL-Common-r17          SSB-PositionQCL-Relation-r17                    OPTIONAL         -- Cond SharedSpectrum2
        ]],
        [[
        smtc4list-r17                       SSB-MTC4List-r17                                OPTIONAL         -- Need R
        ]],
        [[
        frequencyBandList-v1760             MultiFrequencyBandListNR-SIB-v1760              OPTIONAL,       -- Need R
        frequencyBandListSUL-v1760          MultiFrequencyBandListNR-SIB-v1760              OPTIONAL        -- Need R
        ]],
        [[
        frequencyBandListAerial-r18         MultiFrequencyBandListNR-Aerial-SIB-r18         OPTIONAL        -- Need S
        ]]
    },
    ...,
    [[
    relaxedMeasurement-r16              SEQUENCE {
        lowMobilityEvaluation-r16           SEQUENCE {
            s-SearchDeltaP-r16                  ENUMERATED {
                                                    dB3, dB6, dB9, dB12, dB15,
                                                    spare3, spare2, spare1},
            t-SearchDeltaP-r16                  ENUMERATED {
                                                    s5, s10, s20, s30, s60, s120, s180,
                                                    s240, s300, spare7, spare6, spare5,
                                                    spare4, spare3, spare2, spare1}
        }                                                                                   OPTIONAL,       -- Need R
        cellEdgeEvaluation-r16              SEQUENCE {
            s-SearchThresholdP-r16              ReselectionThreshold,
            s-SearchThresholdQ-r16              ReselectionThresholdQ                       OPTIONAL        -- Need R
        }                                                                                   OPTIONAL,       -- Need R
        combineRelaxedMeasCondition-r16     ENUMERATED {true}                               OPTIONAL,       -- Need R
        highPriorityMeasRelax-r16           ENUMERATED {true}                               OPTIONAL        -- Need R
    }                                                                                       OPTIONAL        -- Need R
    ]],
    [[
    cellEquivalentSize-r17                  INTEGER(2..16)                                  OPTIONAL,       -- Cond HSDN
    relaxedMeasurement-r17                  SEQUENCE {
        stationaryMobilityEvaluation-r17        SEQUENCE {
            s-SearchDeltaP-Stationary-r17           ENUMERATED {dB2, dB3, dB6, dB9, dB12, dB15, spare2, spare1},
            t-SearchDeltaP-Stationary-r17           ENUMERATED {s5, s10, s20, s30, s60, s120, s180, s240, s300, spare7, spare6, spare5,
                                                                spare4, spare3, spare2, spare1}
        },
        cellEdgeEvaluationWhileStationary-r17   SEQUENCE {
            s-SearchThresholdP2-r17                 ReselectionThreshold,
            s-SearchThresholdQ2-r17                 ReselectionThresholdQ                   OPTIONAL        -- Need R
        }                                                                                   OPTIONAL,       -- Need R
        combineRelaxedMeasCondition2-r17        ENUMERATED {true}                           OPTIONAL        -- Need R
    }                                                                                       OPTIONAL        -- Need R
    ]]
}

RangeToBestCell    ::= Q-OffsetRange

-- TAG-SIB2-STOP
-- ASN1STOP





–	SIB3
SIB3 contains neighbouring cell related information relevant only for intra-frequency cell re-selection. The IE includes cells with specific re-selection parameters as well as exclude-listed cells.
SIB3 information element
-- ASN1START
-- TAG-SIB3-START

SIB3 ::=                            SEQUENCE {
    intraFreqNeighCellList              IntraFreqNeighCellList                                          OPTIONAL,   -- Need R
    intraFreqExcludedCellList           IntraFreqExcludedCellList                                       OPTIONAL,   -- Need R
    lateNonCriticalExtension            OCTET STRING                                                    OPTIONAL,
    ...,
    [[
    intraFreqNeighCellList-v1610        IntraFreqNeighCellList-v1610                                    OPTIONAL,   -- Need R
    intraFreqAllowedCellList-r16        IntraFreqAllowedCellList-r16                                    OPTIONAL,   -- Cond SharedSpectrum2
    intraFreqCAG-CellList-r16           SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxPLMN)) OF IntraFreqCAG-CellListPerPLMN-r16    OPTIONAL    -- Need R
    ]],
    [[
    intraFreqNeighHSDN-CellList-r17     IntraFreqNeighHSDN-CellList-r17                                 OPTIONAL,    -- Need R
    intraFreqNeighCellList-v1710        IntraFreqNeighCellList-v1710                                    OPTIONAL     -- Need R
    ]],
    [[
    channelAccessMode2-r17              ENUMERATED {enabled}                                            OPTIONAL     -- Need R
    ]]
}

IntraFreqNeighCellList ::=          SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxCellIntra)) OF IntraFreqNeighCellInfo

IntraFreqNeighCellList-v1610::=     SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxCellIntra)) OF IntraFreqNeighCellInfo-v1610

IntraFreqNeighCellList-v1710 ::=     SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxCellIntra)) OF IntraFreqNeighCellInfo-v1710

IntraFreqNeighCellInfo ::=          SEQUENCE {
    physCellId                          PhysCellId,
    q-OffsetCell                        Q-OffsetRange,
    q-RxLevMinOffsetCell                INTEGER (1..8)                                  OPTIONAL,   -- Need R
    q-RxLevMinOffsetCellSUL             INTEGER (1..8)                                  OPTIONAL,   -- Need R
    q-QualMinOffsetCell                 INTEGER (1..8)                                  OPTIONAL,   -- Need R
    ...
}

IntraFreqNeighCellInfo-v1610 ::=     SEQUENCE {
    ssb-PositionQCL-r16                 SSB-PositionQCL-Relation-r16                    OPTIONAL   -- Cond SharedSpectrum2
}

IntraFreqNeighCellInfo-v1710 ::=     SEQUENCE {
    ssb-PositionQCL-r17                 SSB-PositionQCL-Relation-r17                    OPTIONAL   -- Cond SharedSpectrum2
}

IntraFreqExcludedCellList ::=       SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxCellExcluded)) OF PCI-Range

IntraFreqAllowedCellList-r16 ::=    SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxCellAllowed)) OF PCI-Range

IntraFreqCAG-CellListPerPLMN-r16 ::= SEQUENCE {
    plmn-IdentityIndex-r16               INTEGER (1..maxPLMN),
    cag-CellList-r16                     SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxCAG-Cell-r16)) OF PCI-Range
}

IntraFreqNeighHSDN-CellList-r17 ::= SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxCellIntra)) OF PCI-Range

-- TAG-SIB3-STOP
-- ASN1STOP





–	SIB4
SIB4 contains information relevant for inter-frequency cell re-selection (i.e. information about other NR frequencies and inter-frequency neighbouring cells relevant for cell re-selection), which can also be used for NR idle/inactive measurements. The IE includes cell re-selection parameters common for a frequency as well as cell specific re-selection parameters.
SIB4 information element
-- ASN1START
-- TAG-SIB4-START

SIB4 ::=                            SEQUENCE {
    interFreqCarrierFreqList            InterFreqCarrierFreqList,
    lateNonCriticalExtension            OCTET STRING                                OPTIONAL,
    ...,
    [[
    interFreqCarrierFreqList-v1610      InterFreqCarrierFreqList-v1610              OPTIONAL   -- Need R
    ]],
    [[
    interFreqCarrierFreqList-v1700      InterFreqCarrierFreqList-v1700              OPTIONAL   -- Need R
    ]],
    [[
    interFreqCarrierFreqList-v1720      InterFreqCarrierFreqList-v1720              OPTIONAL   -- Need R
    ]],
    [[
    interFreqCarrierFreqList-v1730      InterFreqCarrierFreqList-v1730              OPTIONAL   -- Need R
    ]],
    [[
    interFreqCarrierFreqList-v1760      InterFreqCarrierFreqList-v1760              OPTIONAL   -- Need R
    ]],
    [[
    interFreqCarrierFreqList-v1800      InterFreqCarrierFreqList-v1800              OPTIONAL   -- Need R
    ]]
}

InterFreqCarrierFreqList ::=        SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxFreq)) OF InterFreqCarrierFreqInfo

InterFreqCarrierFreqList-v1610 ::=  SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxFreq)) OF InterFreqCarrierFreqInfo-v1610

InterFreqCarrierFreqList-v1700 ::=  SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxFreq)) OF InterFreqCarrierFreqInfo-v1700

InterFreqCarrierFreqList-v1720 ::=  SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxFreq)) OF InterFreqCarrierFreqInfo-v1720

InterFreqCarrierFreqList-v1730 ::=  SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxFreq)) OF InterFreqCarrierFreqInfo-v1730

InterFreqCarrierFreqList-v1760 ::=  SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxFreq)) OF InterFreqCarrierFreqInfo-v1760

InterFreqCarrierFreqList-v1800 ::=  SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxFreq)) OF InterFreqCarrierFreqInfo-v1800

InterFreqCarrierFreqInfo ::=        SEQUENCE {
    dl-CarrierFreq                      ARFCN-ValueNR,
    frequencyBandList                   MultiFrequencyBandListNR-SIB                                OPTIONAL,   -- Cond Mandatory
    frequencyBandListSUL                MultiFrequencyBandListNR-SIB                                OPTIONAL,   -- Need R
    nrofSS-BlocksToAverage              INTEGER (2..maxNrofSS-BlocksToAverage)                      OPTIONAL,   -- Need S
    absThreshSS-BlocksConsolidation     ThresholdNR                                                 OPTIONAL,   -- Need S
    smtc                                SSB-MTC                                                     OPTIONAL,   -- Need S
    ssbSubcarrierSpacing                SubcarrierSpacing,
    ssb-ToMeasure                       SSB-ToMeasure                                               OPTIONAL,   -- Need S
    deriveSSB-IndexFromCell             BOOLEAN,
    ss-RSSI-Measurement                 SS-RSSI-Measurement                                         OPTIONAL,   -- Need R
    q-RxLevMin                          Q-RxLevMin,
    q-RxLevMinSUL                       Q-RxLevMin                                                  OPTIONAL,   -- Need R
    q-QualMin                           Q-QualMin                                                   OPTIONAL,   -- Need S
    p-Max                               P-Max                                                       OPTIONAL,   -- Need S
    t-ReselectionNR                     T-Reselection,
    t-ReselectionNR-SF                  SpeedStateScaleFactors                                      OPTIONAL,   -- Need S
    threshX-HighP                       ReselectionThreshold,
    threshX-LowP                        ReselectionThreshold,
    threshX-Q                           SEQUENCE {
        threshX-HighQ                       ReselectionThresholdQ,
        threshX-LowQ                        ReselectionThresholdQ
    }                                                                                               OPTIONAL,   -- Cond RSRQ
    cellReselectionPriority             CellReselectionPriority                                     OPTIONAL,   -- Need R
    cellReselectionSubPriority          CellReselectionSubPriority                                  OPTIONAL,   -- Need R
    q-OffsetFreq                        Q-OffsetRange                                               DEFAULT dB0,
    interFreqNeighCellList              InterFreqNeighCellList                                      OPTIONAL,   -- Need R
    interFreqExcludedCellList           InterFreqExcludedCellList                                   OPTIONAL,   -- Need R
    ...

}

InterFreqCarrierFreqInfo-v1610 ::=  SEQUENCE {
    interFreqNeighCellList-v1610        InterFreqNeighCellList-v1610                                OPTIONAL,    -- Need R
    smtc2-LP-r16                        SSB-MTC2-LP-r16                                             OPTIONAL,    -- Need R
    interFreqAllowedCellList-r16        InterFreqAllowedCellList-r16                                OPTIONAL,    -- Cond SharedSpectrum2
    ssb-PositionQCL-Common-r16          SSB-PositionQCL-Relation-r16                                OPTIONAL,    -- Cond SharedSpectrum
    interFreqCAG-CellList-r16           SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxPLMN)) OF InterFreqCAG-CellListPerPLMN-r16   OPTIONAL     -- Need R
}

InterFreqCarrierFreqInfo-v1700 ::=  SEQUENCE {
    interFreqNeighHSDN-CellList-r17     InterFreqNeighHSDN-CellList-r17                             OPTIONAL,    -- Need R
    highSpeedMeasInterFreq-r17          ENUMERATED {true}                                           OPTIONAL,    -- Need R
    redCapAccessAllowed-r17             ENUMERATED {true}                                           OPTIONAL,    -- Need R
    ssb-PositionQCL-Common-r17          SSB-PositionQCL-Relation-r17                                OPTIONAL,    -- Cond SharedSpectrum
    interFreqNeighCellList-v1710        InterFreqNeighCellList-v1710                                OPTIONAL     -- Cond SharedSpectrum2
}

InterFreqCarrierFreqInfo-v1720 ::=  SEQUENCE {
    smtc4list-r17                       SSB-MTC4List-r17                                            OPTIONAL     -- Need R
}

InterFreqCarrierFreqInfo-v1730 ::=  SEQUENCE {
    channelAccessMode2-r17              ENUMERATED {enabled}                                        OPTIONAL     -- Need R
}

InterFreqCarrierFreqInfo-v1760 ::=  SEQUENCE {
    frequencyBandList-v1760             MultiFrequencyBandListNR-SIB-v1760                          OPTIONAL,    -- Need R
    frequencyBandListSUL-v1760          MultiFrequencyBandListNR-SIB-v1760                          OPTIONAL     -- Need R
}

InterFreqCarrierFreqInfo-v1800 ::=  SEQUENCE {
    dl-CarrierFreq-r18                  ARFCN-ValueNR                                               OPTIONAL,    -- Cond LessThan5MHz
    frequencyBandList-r18               MultiFrequencyBandListNR-SIB                                OPTIONAL,    -- Cond LessThan5MHz
    frequencyBandListAerial-r18         MultiFrequencyBandListNR-Aerial-SIB-r18                     OPTIONAL,    -- Need S
    mobileIAB-CellList-r18              PCI-Range                                                   OPTIONAL,    -- Need R
    mobileIAB-Freq-r18                  ENUMERATED {true}                                           OPTIONAL,    -- Need R
    eRedCapAccessAllowed-r18            ENUMERATED {true}                                           OPTIONAL,    -- Need R
    tn-AreaIdList-r18                   SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxTN-AreaInfo-r18)) OF TN-AreaId-r18    OPTIONAL,    -- Need R
    accessAllowed2RxXR-r18              ENUMERATED {true}                                           OPTIONAL     -- Need R
}

InterFreqNeighHSDN-CellList-r17 ::= SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxCellInter)) OF PCI-Range

InterFreqNeighCellList ::=          SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxCellInter)) OF InterFreqNeighCellInfo

InterFreqNeighCellList-v1610 ::=    SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxCellInter)) OF InterFreqNeighCellInfo-v1610

InterFreqNeighCellList-v1710 ::=    SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxCellInter)) OF InterFreqNeighCellInfo-v1710

InterFreqNeighCellInfo ::=          SEQUENCE {
    physCellId                          PhysCellId,
    q-OffsetCell                        Q-OffsetRange,
    q-RxLevMinOffsetCell                INTEGER (1..8)                                              OPTIONAL,   -- Need R
    q-RxLevMinOffsetCellSUL             INTEGER (1..8)                                              OPTIONAL,   -- Need R
    q-QualMinOffsetCell                 INTEGER (1..8)                                              OPTIONAL,   -- Need R
    ...
}

InterFreqNeighCellInfo-v1610 ::=    SEQUENCE {
    ssb-PositionQCL-r16                 SSB-PositionQCL-Relation-r16                                OPTIONAL    -- Cond SharedSpectrum2
}

InterFreqNeighCellInfo-v1710 ::=    SEQUENCE {
    ssb-PositionQCL-r17                 SSB-PositionQCL-Relation-r17                                OPTIONAL    -- Cond SharedSpectrum2
}

InterFreqExcludedCellList ::=       SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxCellExcluded)) OF PCI-Range

InterFreqAllowedCellList-r16 ::=    SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxCellAllowed)) OF PCI-Range

InterFreqCAG-CellListPerPLMN-r16 ::= SEQUENCE {
    plmn-IdentityIndex-r16              INTEGER (1..maxPLMN),
    cag-CellList-r16                    SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxCAG-Cell-r16)) OF PCI-Range
}

-- TAG-SIB4-STOP
-- ASN1STOP





–	SIB5
SIB5 contains information relevant only for inter-RAT cell re-selection i.e. information about E-UTRA frequencies and E-UTRAs neighbouring cells relevant for cell re-selection. The IE includes cell re-selection parameters common for a frequency.
SIB5 information element
-- ASN1START
-- TAG-SIB5-START

SIB5 ::=                            SEQUENCE {
    carrierFreqListEUTRA                CarrierFreqListEUTRA                        OPTIONAL,       -- Need R
    t-ReselectionEUTRA                  T-Reselection,
    t-ReselectionEUTRA-SF               SpeedStateScaleFactors                      OPTIONAL,       -- Need S
    lateNonCriticalExtension            OCTET STRING                                OPTIONAL,
    ...,
    [[
    carrierFreqListEUTRA-v1610      CarrierFreqListEUTRA-v1610                      OPTIONAL        -- Need R
    ]],
    [[
    carrierFreqListEUTRA-v1700      CarrierFreqListEUTRA-v1700                      OPTIONAL,       -- Need R
    idleModeMeasVoiceFallback-r17   ENUMERATED{true}                                OPTIONAL        -- Need R
    ]],
    [[
    carrierFreqListEUTRA-v1800      CarrierFreqListEUTRA-v1800                      OPTIONAL        -- Need R
    ]]
}

CarrierFreqListEUTRA ::=            SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxEUTRA-Carrier)) OF CarrierFreqEUTRA

CarrierFreqListEUTRA-v1610 ::=      SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxEUTRA-Carrier)) OF CarrierFreqEUTRA-v1610

CarrierFreqListEUTRA-v1700 ::=      SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxEUTRA-Carrier)) OF CarrierFreqEUTRA-v1700

CarrierFreqListEUTRA-v1800 ::=      SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxEUTRA-Carrier)) OF CarrierFreqEUTRA-v1800

CarrierFreqEUTRA ::=                SEQUENCE {
    carrierFreq                         ARFCN-ValueEUTRA,
    eutra-multiBandInfoList             EUTRA-MultiBandInfoList                     OPTIONAL,       -- Need R
    eutra-FreqNeighCellList             EUTRA-FreqNeighCellList                     OPTIONAL,       -- Need R
    eutra-ExcludedCellList              EUTRA-FreqExcludedCellList                  OPTIONAL,       -- Need R
    allowedMeasBandwidth                EUTRA-AllowedMeasBandwidth,
    presenceAntennaPort1                EUTRA-PresenceAntennaPort1,
    cellReselectionPriority             CellReselectionPriority                     OPTIONAL,       -- Need R
    cellReselectionSubPriority          CellReselectionSubPriority                  OPTIONAL,       -- Need R
    threshX-High                        ReselectionThreshold,
    threshX-Low                         ReselectionThreshold,
    q-RxLevMin                          INTEGER (-70..-22),
    q-QualMin                           INTEGER (-34..-3),
    p-MaxEUTRA                          INTEGER (-30..33),
    threshX-Q                           SEQUENCE {
        threshX-HighQ                       ReselectionThresholdQ,
        threshX-LowQ                        ReselectionThresholdQ
    }                                                                               OPTIONAL        -- Cond RSRQ
}

CarrierFreqEUTRA-v1610 ::= SEQUENCE {
    highSpeedEUTRACarrier-r16       ENUMERATED {true}                               OPTIONAL        -- Need R
}

CarrierFreqEUTRA-v1700 ::=          SEQUENCE {
    eutra-FreqNeighHSDN-CellList-r17    EUTRA-FreqNeighHSDN-CellList-r17            OPTIONAL        -- Need R
}

CarrierFreqEUTRA-v1800 ::=          SEQUENCE {
    eutra-MultiBandInfoListAerial-r18   EUTRA-MultiBandInfoListAerial-r18           OPTIONAL,       -- Need R
    tn-AreaIdList-r18                   SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxTN-AreaInfo-r18)) OF TN-AreaId-r18  OPTIONAL   -- Need R
}

EUTRA-FreqNeighHSDN-CellList-r17 ::= SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxCellEUTRA)) OF EUTRA-PhysCellIdRange

EUTRA-FreqExcludedCellList ::=      SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxEUTRA-CellExcluded)) OF EUTRA-PhysCellIdRange

EUTRA-FreqNeighCellList ::=         SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxCellEUTRA)) OF EUTRA-FreqNeighCellInfo

EUTRA-FreqNeighCellInfo ::=         SEQUENCE {
    physCellId                          EUTRA-PhysCellId,
    dummy                               EUTRA-Q-OffsetRange,
    q-RxLevMinOffsetCell                INTEGER (1..8)                              OPTIONAL,       -- Need R
    q-QualMinOffsetCell                 INTEGER (1..8)                              OPTIONAL        -- Need R
}

-- TAG-SIB5-STOP
-- ASN1STOP





–	SIB6
SIB6 contains an ETWS primary notification.
SIB6 information element
-- ASN1START
-- TAG-SIB6-START

SIB6 ::=                            SEQUENCE {
    messageIdentifier                   BIT STRING (SIZE (16)),
    serialNumber                        BIT STRING (SIZE (16)),
    warningType                         OCTET STRING (SIZE (2)),
    lateNonCriticalExtension            OCTET STRING                                OPTIONAL,
    ...
}

-- TAG-SIB6-STOP
-- ASN1STOP



–	SIB7
SIB7 contains an ETWS secondary notification.
SIB7 information element
-- ASN1START
-- TAG-SIB7-START

SIB7 ::=                            SEQUENCE {
    messageIdentifier                   BIT STRING (SIZE (16)),
    serialNumber                        BIT STRING (SIZE (16)),
    warningMessageSegmentType           ENUMERATED {notLastSegment, lastSegment},
    warningMessageSegmentNumber         INTEGER (0..63),
    warningMessageSegment               OCTET STRING,
    dataCodingScheme                    OCTET STRING (SIZE (1))                     OPTIONAL,   -- Cond Segment1
    lateNonCriticalExtension            OCTET STRING                                OPTIONAL,
    ...
}

-- TAG-SIB7-STOP
-- ASN1STOP





–	SIB8
SIB8 contains a CMAS notification.
SIB8 information element
-- ASN1START
-- TAG-SIB8-START

SIB8 ::=                        SEQUENCE {
    messageIdentifier               BIT STRING (SIZE (16)),
    serialNumber                    BIT STRING (SIZE (16)),
    warningMessageSegmentType       ENUMERATED {notLastSegment, lastSegment},
    warningMessageSegmentNumber     INTEGER (0..63),
    warningMessageSegment           OCTET STRING,
    dataCodingScheme                OCTET STRING (SIZE (1))                         OPTIONAL,   -- Cond Segment1
    warningAreaCoordinatesSegment   OCTET STRING                                    OPTIONAL,   -- Need R
    lateNonCriticalExtension        OCTET STRING                                    OPTIONAL,
    ...
}

-- TAG-SIB8-STOP
-- ASN1STOP





–	SIB9
SIB9 contains information related to GPS time and Coordinated Universal Time (UTC). The UE may use the parameters provided in this system information block to obtain the UTC, the GPS and the local time.
NOTE:	The UE may use the time information for numerous purposes, possibly involving upper layers e.g. to assist GPS initialisation, to synchronise the UE clock.
SIB9 information element
-- ASN1START
-- TAG-SIB9-START

SIB9 ::=                            SEQUENCE {
    timeInfo                            SEQUENCE {
        timeInfoUTC                         INTEGER (0..549755813887),
        dayLightSavingTime                  BIT STRING (SIZE (2))                   OPTIONAL,   -- Need R
        leapSeconds                         INTEGER (-127..128)                     OPTIONAL,   -- Need R
        localTimeOffset                     INTEGER (-63..64)                       OPTIONAL    -- Need R
    }                                                                               OPTIONAL,   -- Need R
    lateNonCriticalExtension            OCTET STRING                                OPTIONAL,
    ...,
    [[
    referenceTimeInfo-r16               ReferenceTimeInfo-r16                       OPTIONAL    -- Need R
    ]],
    [[
    eventID-TSS-r18                     INTEGER (0..63)                             OPTIONAL    -- Need R
    ]]
}

-- TAG-SIB9-STOP
-- ASN1STOP



NOTE 1:	The UE may use this field together with the leapSeconds field to obtain GPS time as follows: GPS Time (in seconds) = timeInfoUTC (in seconds) -  2,524,953,600 (seconds) + leapSeconds, where 2,524,953,600 is the number of seconds between 00:00:00 on Gregorian calendar date 1 January, 1900 and 00:00:00 on Gregorian calendar date 6 January, 1980 (start of GPS time).
–	SIB10
SIB10 contains the HRNNs of the NPNs listed in SIB1.
SIB10 information element
-- ASN1START
-- TAG-SIB10-START

SIB10-r16 ::=               SEQUENCE {
    hrnn-List-r16               HRNN-List-r16                                   OPTIONAL,   -- Need R
    lateNonCriticalExtension    OCTET STRING                                    OPTIONAL,
    ...
}

HRNN-List-r16 ::=           SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxNPN-r16)) OF HRNN-r16

HRNN-r16 ::=                SEQUENCE {
    hrnn-r16                    OCTET STRING (SIZE(1.. maxHRNN-Len-r16))        OPTIONAL   -- Need R
}

-- TAG-SIB10-STOP
-- ASN1STOP



–	SIB11
SIB11 contains information related to idle/inactive measurements.
SIB11 information element
-- ASN1START
-- TAG-SIB11-START

SIB11-r16 ::=                    SEQUENCE {
    measIdleConfigSIB-r16            MeasIdleConfigSIB-r16                       OPTIONAL, -- Need S
    lateNonCriticalExtension         OCTET STRING                                OPTIONAL,
    ...
}

-- TAG-SIB11-STOP
-- ASN1STOP



–	SIB12
SIB12 contains NR sidelink communication/discovery configuration.
SIB12 information element
-- ASN1START
-- TAG-SIB12-START

SIB12-r16 ::=                 SEQUENCE {
    segmentNumber-r16             INTEGER (0..63),
    segmentType-r16               ENUMERATED {notLastSegment, lastSegment},
    segmentContainer-r16          OCTET STRING
}

SIB12-IEs-r16 ::=             SEQUENCE {
    sl-ConfigCommonNR-r16         SL-ConfigCommonNR-r16,
    lateNonCriticalExtension      OCTET STRING (CONTAINING SIB12-IEs-v16k0)                                     OPTIONAL,
    ...,
    [[
    sl-DRX-ConfigCommonGC-BC-r17         SL-DRX-ConfigGC-BC-r17                                                 OPTIONAL,    -- Need R
    sl-DiscConfigCommon-r17              SL-DiscConfigCommon-r17                                                OPTIONAL,    -- Need R
    sl-L2U2N-Relay-r17                   ENUMERATED {enabled}                                                   OPTIONAL,    -- Need R
    sl-NonRelayDiscovery-r17             ENUMERATED {enabled}                                                   OPTIONAL,    -- Need R
    sl-L3U2N-RelayDiscovery-r17          ENUMERATED {enabled}                                                   OPTIONAL,    -- Need R
    sl-TimersAndConstantsRemoteUE-r17    UE-TimersAndConstantsRemoteUE-r17                                      OPTIONAL     -- Need R
    ]],
    [[
    sl-FreqInfoListSizeExt-v1800         SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxNrofFreqSL-1-r18)) OF SL-FreqConfigCommon-r16    OPTIONAL,    -- Need R
    sl-RLC-BearerConfigListSizeExt-v1800 SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxSL-LCID-r16)) OF SL-RLC-BearerConfig-r16         OPTIONAL,    -- Need R
    sl-SyncFreqList-r18                  SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxNrofFreqSL-r16)) OF SL-Freq-Id-r16               OPTIONAL,    -- Need R
    sl-SyncTxMultiFreq-r18               ENUMERATED {true}                                                      OPTIONAL,    -- Need S
    sl-MaxTransPowerCA-r18               P-Max                                                                  OPTIONAL,    -- Need R
    sl-DiscConfigCommon-v1800            SL-DiscConfigCommon-v1800                                              OPTIONAL,    -- Need R
    sl-L2-U2U-Relay-r18                  ENUMERATED {enabled}                                                   OPTIONAL,    -- Need R
    sl-L3-U2U-RelayDiscovery-r18         ENUMERATED {enabled}                                                   OPTIONAL,    -- Need R
    t400-U2U-r18                         ENUMERATED {ms200, ms400, ms600, ms800, ms1200, ms2000, ms3000, ms4000} OPTIONAL    -- Need R
    ]],
    [[
    sl-DiscConfigCommon-v1840            SL-DiscConfigCommon-v1840                                              OPTIONAL     -- Need R
    ]]
}

-- Late non-critical Rel-16 extensions:
SIB12-IEs-v16k0 ::=            SEQUENCE {
    sl-ConfigCommonNR-v16k0             SL-ConfigCommonNR-v16k0                                                 OPTIONAL, -- Need R
    nonCriticalExtension                SEQUENCE{}                                                              OPTIONAL
}

SL-ConfigCommonNR-r16 ::=        SEQUENCE {
    sl-FreqInfoList-r16                  SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxNrofFreqSL-r16)) OF SL-FreqConfigCommon-r16      OPTIONAL,    -- Need R
    sl-UE-SelectedConfig-r16             SL-UE-SelectedConfig-r16                                               OPTIONAL,    -- Need R
    sl-NR-AnchorCarrierFreqList-r16      SL-NR-AnchorCarrierFreqList-r16                                        OPTIONAL,    -- Need R
    sl-EUTRA-AnchorCarrierFreqList-r16   SL-EUTRA-AnchorCarrierFreqList-r16                                     OPTIONAL,    -- Need R
    sl-RadioBearerConfigList-r16         SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxNrofSLRB-r16)) OF SL-RadioBearerConfig-r16       OPTIONAL,    -- Need R
    sl-RLC-BearerConfigList-r16          SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxSL-LCID-r16)) OF SL-RLC-BearerConfig-r16         OPTIONAL,    -- Need R
    sl-MeasConfigCommon-r16              SL-MeasConfigCommon-r16                                                OPTIONAL,    -- Need R
    sl-CSI-Acquisition-r16               ENUMERATED {enabled}                                                   OPTIONAL,    -- Need R
    sl-OffsetDFN-r16                     INTEGER (1..1000)                                                      OPTIONAL,    -- Need R
    t400-r16                             ENUMERATED {ms100, ms200, ms300, ms400, ms600, ms1000, ms1500, ms2000} OPTIONAL,    -- Need R
    sl-MaxNumConsecutiveDTX-r16          ENUMERATED {n1, n2, n3, n4, n6, n8, n16, n32}                          OPTIONAL,    -- Need R
    sl-SSB-PriorityNR-r16                INTEGER (1..8)                                                         OPTIONAL     -- Need R
}

SL-ConfigCommonNR-v16k0 ::=          SEQUENCE {
    sl-FreqInfoListExt-v16k0             SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxNrofFreqSL-r16)) OF SL-FreqConfigCommonExt-v16k0 OPTIONAL    -- Need R
}

SL-NR-AnchorCarrierFreqList-r16 ::=  SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxFreqSL-NR-r16)) OF ARFCN-ValueNR

SL-EUTRA-AnchorCarrierFreqList-r16 ::= SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxFreqSL-EUTRA-r16)) OF ARFCN-ValueEUTRA

SL-DiscConfigCommon-r17 ::=   SEQUENCE {
    sl-RelayUE-ConfigCommon-r17   SL-RelayUE-Config-r17,
    sl-RemoteUE-ConfigCommon-r17  SL-RemoteUE-Config-r17
}

SL-DiscConfigCommon-v1800 ::=    SEQUENCE {
    sl-RelayUE-ConfigCommonU2U-r18   SL-RelayUE-ConfigU2U-r18,
    sl-RemoteUE-ConfigCommonU2U-r18  SL-RemoteUE-ConfigU2U-r18
}

SL-DiscConfigCommon-v1840 ::=     SEQUENCE {
    sl-RelayUE-ConfigCommonU2U-v1840  SL-RelayUE-ConfigU2U-v1840,
    sl-RemoteUE-ConfigCommonU2U-v1840 SL-RemoteUE-ConfigU2U-v1830
}

-- TAG-SIB12-STOP
-- ASN1STOP



–	SIB13
SIB13 contains configurations of V2X sidelink communication defined in TS 36.331 [10].
SIB13 information element
-- ASN1START
-- TAG-SIB13-START

SIB13-r16 ::=                       SEQUENCE {
    sl-V2X-ConfigCommon-r16             OCTET STRING,
    dummy                               OCTET STRING,
    tdd-Config-r16                      OCTET STRING,
    lateNonCriticalExtension            OCTET STRING                          OPTIONAL,
    ...
}

-- TAG-SIB13-STOP
-- ASN1STOP



–	SIB14
SIB14 contains configurations of V2X sidelink communication defined in TS 36.331 [10], which can be used jointly with that included in SIB13.
SIB14 information element
-- ASN1START
-- TAG-SIB14-START

SIB14-r16 ::=                      SEQUENCE {
    sl-V2X-ConfigCommonExt-r16         OCTET STRING,
    lateNonCriticalExtension           OCTET STRING                          OPTIONAL,
    ...
}

-- TAG-SIB14-STOP
-- ASN1STOP



–	SIB15
SIB15 contains configurations of disaster roaming information.
SIB15 information element
-- ASN1START
-- TAG-SIB15-START

SIB15-r17 ::=                          SEQUENCE {
    commonPLMNsWithDisasterCondition-r17   SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxPLMN)) OF PLMN-Identity                   OPTIONAL,  -- Need R
    applicableDisasterInfoList-r17         SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxPLMN)) OF ApplicableDisasterInfo-r17      OPTIONAL,  -- Need R
    lateNonCriticalExtension               OCTET STRING                                                    OPTIONAL,
    ...
}

ApplicableDisasterInfo-r17    ::= CHOICE {
    noDisasterRoaming-r17             NULL,
    disasterRelatedIndication-r17     NULL,
    commonPLMNs-r17                   NULL,
    dedicatedPLMNs-r17                SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxPLMN)) OF PLMN-Identity
}

-- TAG-SIB15-STOP
-- ASN1STOP



–	SIB16
SIB16 contains configurations of slice-based cell reselection information.
SIB16 information element
-- ASN1START
-- TAG-SIB16-START

SIB16-r17 ::=                    SEQUENCE {
    freqPriorityListSlicing-r17      FreqPriorityListSlicing-r17              OPTIONAL,  -- Need R
    lateNonCriticalExtension         OCTET STRING                             OPTIONAL,
    ...
}

-- TAG-SIB16-STOP
-- ASN1STOP



–	SIB17
SIB17 contains configurations of TRS resources for idle/inactive UEs.
SIB17 information element
-- ASN1START
-- TAG-SIB17-START

SIB17-r17 ::=               SEQUENCE {
    segmentNumber-r17           INTEGER (0..63),
    segmentType-r17             ENUMERATED {notLastSegment, lastSegment},
    segmentContainer-r17        OCTET STRING
}

SIB17-IEs-r17 ::=           SEQUENCE {
    trs-ResourceSetConfig-r17   SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxNrofTRS-ResourceSets-r17)) OF TRS-ResourceSet-r17,
    validityDuration-r17        ENUMERATED {t1, t2, t4, t8, t16, t32, t64, t128, t256, t512, infinity, spare5, spare4, spare3, spare2,
                                            spare1}                                                            OPTIONAL,  -- Need S
    lateNonCriticalExtension    OCTET STRING                                                                   OPTIONAL,
    ...
}

TRS-ResourceSet-r17 ::=                SEQUENCE {
    powerControlOffsetSS-r17               ENUMERATED {db-3, db0, db3, db6},
    scramblingID-Info-r17                  CHOICE {
        scramblingIDforCommon-r17              ScramblingId,
        scramblingIDperResourceListWith2-r17   SEQUENCE (SIZE (2)) OF ScramblingId,
        scramblingIDperResourceListWith4-r17   SEQUENCE (SIZE (4)) OF ScramblingId,
    ...
    },
    firstOFDMSymbolInTimeDomain-r17            INTEGER (0..9),
    startingRB-r17                             INTEGER (0..maxNrofPhysicalResourceBlocks-1),
    nrofRBs-r17                                INTEGER (24..maxNrofPhysicalResourceBlocksPlus1),
    ssb-Index-r17                              SSB-Index,
    periodicityAndOffset-r17                   CHOICE {
        slots10                                    INTEGER (0..9),
        slots20                                    INTEGER (0..19),
        slots40                                    INTEGER (0..39),
        slots80                                    INTEGER (0..79)
    },
    frequencyDomainAllocation-r17              BIT STRING (SIZE (4)),
    indBitID-r17                               INTEGER (0..5),
    nrofResources-r17                          ENUMERATED {n2, n4}
}

-- TAG-SIB17-STOP
-- ASN1STOP





–	SIB17bis
SIB17bis contains configurations of TRS resources for idle/inactive UEs. SIB17bis is optionally scheduled if SIB17 is not scheduled.
SIB17bis information element
-- ASN1START
-- TAG-SIB17bis-START

SIB17bis-r18 ::=               SEQUENCE {
    segmentNumber-r18           INTEGER (0..63),
    segmentType-r18             ENUMERATED {notLastSegment, lastSegment},
    segmentContainer-r18        OCTET STRING
}

SIB17bis-IEs-r18 ::=           SEQUENCE {
    trs-ResourceSetConfig-r18   SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxNrofTRS-ResourceSets-r17)) OF TRS-ResourceSet-r18        OPTIONAL,  -- Need R
    validityDuration-r18        ENUMERATED {t1, t2, t4, t8, t16, t32, t64, t128, t256, t512, infinity, spare5, spare4, spare3, spare2,
                                            spare1}                                                            OPTIONAL,  -- Need S
    lateNonCriticalExtension    OCTET STRING                                                                   OPTIONAL,
    ...
}

TRS-ResourceSet-r18 ::=                SEQUENCE {
    powerControlOffsetSS-r18               ENUMERATED {db-3, db0, db3, db6},
    scramblingID-Info-r18                  CHOICE {
        scramblingIDforCommon-r18              ScramblingId,
        scramblingIDperResourceListWith2-r18   SEQUENCE (SIZE (2)) OF ScramblingId,
        scramblingIDperResourceListWith4-r18   SEQUENCE (SIZE (4)) OF ScramblingId,
    ...
    },
    firstOFDMSymbolInTimeDomain-r18            INTEGER (0..9),
    startingRB-r18                             INTEGER (0..maxNrofPhysicalResourceBlocks-1),
    nrofRBs-r18                                INTEGER (24..maxNrofPhysicalResourceBlocksPlus1),
    ssb-Index-r18                              SSB-Index,
    periodicityAndOffset-r18                   CHOICE {
        slots10                                    INTEGER (0..9),
        slots20                                    INTEGER (0..19),
        slots40                                    INTEGER (0..39),
        slots80                                    INTEGER (0..79),
        slots160                                   INTEGER (0..159),
        slots320                                   INTEGER (0..319),
        slots640                                   INTEGER (0..639)
    },
    frequencyDomainAllocation-r18              BIT STRING (SIZE (4)),
    indBitID-r18                               INTEGER (0..5),
    nrofResources-r18                          ENUMERATED {n2, n4}
}

-- TAG-SIB17bis-STOP
-- ASN1STOP





–	SIB18
SIB18 contains Group IDs for Network selection (GINs) to support access using credentials from a Credentials Holder or to support UE onboarding.
SIB18 information element
-- ASN1START
-- TAG-SIB18-START

SIB18-r17 ::=               SEQUENCE {
    gin-ElementList-r17         SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxGIN-r17)) OF GIN-Element-r17            OPTIONAL,   -- Need R
    gins-PerSNPN-List-r17       SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxNPN-r16)) OF GINs-PerSNPN-r17           OPTIONAL,   -- Need S
    lateNonCriticalExtension    OCTET STRING                                                  OPTIONAL,
    ...
}

GIN-Element-r17 ::=         SEQUENCE {
    plmn-Identity-r17           PLMN-Identity,
    nid-List-r17                SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxGIN-r17)) OF NID-r16
}

GINs-PerSNPN-r17 ::=        SEQUENCE {
    supportedGINs-r17           BIT STRING (SIZE (1..maxGIN-r17))                             OPTIONAL   -- Need R
}
-- TAG-SIB18-STOP
-- ASN1STOP





–	SIB19
SIB19 contains satellite assistance information for NTN access.
SIB19 information element
-- ASN1START
-- TAG-SIB19-START

SIB19-r17 ::= SEQUENCE {
    ntn-Config-r17                           NTN-Config-r17                                  OPTIONAL,       -- Need R
    t-Service-r17                            INTEGER (0..549755813887)                       OPTIONAL,       -- Need R
    referenceLocation-r17                    ReferenceLocation-r17                           OPTIONAL,       -- Need R
    distanceThresh-r17                       INTEGER(0..65525)                               OPTIONAL,       -- Need R
    ntn-NeighCellConfigList-r17              NTN-NeighCellConfigList-r17                     OPTIONAL,       -- Need R
    lateNonCriticalExtension                 OCTET STRING                                    OPTIONAL,
    ...,
    [[
    ntn-NeighCellConfigListExt-v1720         NTN-NeighCellConfigList-r17                     OPTIONAL        -- Need R
    ]],
    [[
    movingReferenceLocation-r18              ReferenceLocation-r17                           OPTIONAL,       -- Need R
    ntn-CovEnh-r18                           NTN-CovEnh-r18                                  OPTIONAL,       -- Need R
    satSwitchWithReSync-r18                  SatSwitchWithReSync-r18                         OPTIONAL        -- Need R
    ]]
}

NTN-NeighCellConfigList-r17 ::=          SEQUENCE (SIZE(1..maxCellNTN-r17))  OF NTN-NeighCellConfig-r17

NTN-NeighCellConfig-r17 ::=              SEQUENCE {
    ntn-Config-r17                           NTN-Config-r17                                  OPTIONAL,       -- Need R
    carrierFreq-r17                          ARFCN-ValueNR                                   OPTIONAL,       -- Need R
    physCellId-r17                           PhysCellId                                      OPTIONAL        -- Need R
}

NTN-CovEnh-r18 ::=                       SEQUENCE {
    numberOfMsg4HARQ-ACK-Repetitions-r18     BIT STRING (SIZE(4)),
    rsrp-ThresholdMsg4HARQ-ACK-r18           RSRP-Range                                      OPTIONAL        -- Need R
}

SatSwitchWithReSync-r18 ::=              SEQUENCE {
    ntn-Config-r18                           NTN-Config-r17,
    t-ServiceStart-r18                       INTEGER (0..549755813887)                       OPTIONAL,       -- Need R
    ssb-TimeOffset-r18                       INTEGER (0..159)                                OPTIONAL        -- Need R
}

-- TAG-SIB19-STOP
-- ASN1STOP







–	SIB20
SIB20 contains the information required to acquire the MCCH/MTCH configuration for MBS broadcast.
SIB20 information element
-- ASN1START
-- TAG-SIB20-START

SIB20-r17 ::=	SEQUENCE {
    mcch-Config-r17                MCCH-Config-r17,
    cfr-ConfigMCCH-MTCH-r17        CFR-ConfigMCCH-MTCH-r17 OPTIONAL,  -- Need S
    lateNonCriticalExtension       OCTET STRING            OPTIONAL,
    ...,
    [[
    cfr-ConfigMCCH-MTCH-RedCap-r18 CFR-ConfigMCCH-MTCH-r17 OPTIONAL,  -- Need S
    mcch-ConfigRedCap-r18          MCCH-Config-r17         OPTIONAL   -- Need S
    ]]
}

MCCH-Config-r17 ::= SEQUENCE {
    mcch-RepetitionPeriodAndOffset-r17   MCCH-RepetitionPeriodAndOffset-r17,
    mcch-WindowStartSlot-r17             INTEGER (0..79),
    mcch-WindowDuration-r17              ENUMERATED {sl2, sl4, sl8, sl10, sl20, sl40,sl80, sl160}     OPTIONAL, -- Need S
    mcch-ModificationPeriod-r17          ENUMERATED {rf2, rf4, rf8, rf16, rf32, rf64, rf128, rf256,
                                         rf512, rf1024, rf2048, rf4096, rf8192, rf16384, rf32768, rf65536}
}

MCCH-RepetitionPeriodAndOffset-r17 ::= CHOICE {
    rf1-r17                                INTEGER(0),
    rf2-r17                                INTEGER(0..1),
    rf4-r17                                INTEGER(0..3),
    rf8-r17                                INTEGER(0..7),
    rf16-r17                               INTEGER(0..15),
    rf32-r17                               INTEGER(0..31),
    rf64-r17                               INTEGER(0..63),
    rf128-r17                              INTEGER(0..127),
    rf256-r17                              INTEGER(0..255)
}

-- TAG-SIB20-STOP
-- ASN1STOP



–	SIB21
SIB21 contains the mapping between the current and/or neighbouring carrier frequencies and MBS Frequency Selection Area Identities (FSAI).
SIB21 information element
-- ASN1START
-- TAG-SIB21-START

SIB21-r17 ::= SEQUENCE {
    mbs-FSAI-IntraFreq-r17                   MBS-FSAI-List-r17                OPTIONAL,  -- Need R
    mbs-FSAI-InterFreqList-r17               MBS-FSAI-InterFreqList-r17       OPTIONAL,  -- Need R
    lateNonCriticalExtension                 OCTET STRING                     OPTIONAL,
    ...
}

MBS-FSAI-List-r17 ::= SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxFSAI-MBS-r17)) OF MBS-FSAI-r17

MBS-FSAI-InterFreqList-r17 ::= SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxFreq)) OF MBS-FSAI-InterFreq-r17

MBS-FSAI-InterFreq-r17 ::= SEQUENCE {
    dl-CarrierFreq-r17         ARFCN-ValueNR,
    mbs-FSAI-List-r17          MBS-FSAI-List-r17
}

MBS-FSAI-r17 ::= OCTET STRING (SIZE (3))

-- TAG-SIB21-STOP
-- ASN1STOP



–	SIB22
SIB22 contains ATG assistance information for ATG access.
SIB22 information element
-- ASN1START
-- TAG-SIB22-START

SIB22-r18 ::=                         SEQUENCE {
    atg-Config-r18                        ATG-Config-r18                                     OPTIONAL,     -- Need R
    hs-ATG-CellReselectionSet-r18         ENUMERATED {true}                                  OPTIONAL,     -- Need R
    atg-NeighCellConfigList-r18           ATG-NeighCellConfigList-r18                        OPTIONAL,     -- Need R
    lateNonCriticalExtension              OCTET STRING                                       OPTIONAL,
    ...
    }

ATG-NeighCellConfigList-r18 ::=       SEQUENCE (SIZE(1..maxCellATG-r18))  OF ATG-NeighCellConfig-r18

ATG-NeighCellConfig-r18 ::=           SEQUENCE {
    atg-gNB-Location-r18                  ReferenceLocation-r17                              OPTIONAL,     -- Need R
    height-gNB-r18                         INTEGER (-16384..16383)                            OPTIONAL,     -- Need R
    carrierFreq-r18                       ARFCN-ValueNR                                      OPTIONAL,     -- Need R
    physCellId-r18                        PhysCellId                                         OPTIONAL      -- Need R
}

-- TAG-SIB22-STOP
-- ASN1STOP




–	SIB23
SIB23 contains NR sidelink Positioning configuration for dedicated SL-PRS resource pool.
SIB23 information element
-- ASN1START
-- TAG-SIB23-START

SIB23-r18 ::=                         SEQUENCE {
    segmentNumber-r18                     INTEGER (0..63),
    segmentType-r18                       ENUMERATED {notLastSegment, lastSegment},
    segmentContainer-r18                  OCTET STRING
}

SIB23-IEs-r18 ::=                    SEQUENCE {
    sl-PosConfigCommonNR-r18              SL-PosConfigCommonNR-r18,
    lateNonCriticalExtension              OCTET STRING                                                           OPTIONAL,
    ...
}

SL-PosConfigCommonNR-r18 ::=          SEQUENCE {
    sl-PosFreqInfoList-r18                SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxNrofFreqSL-r16)) OF SL-FreqConfigCommon-r16      OPTIONAL,    -- Need R
    sl-PosUE-SelectedConfig-r18           SL-UE-SelectedConfig-r16                                               OPTIONAL,    -- Need R
    sl-PosNR-AnchorCarrierFreqList-r18    SL-NR-AnchorCarrierFreqList-r16                                        OPTIONAL,    -- Need R
    sl-PosMeasConfigCommon-r18            SL-MeasConfigCommon-r16                                                OPTIONAL,    -- Need R
    sl-PosOffsetDFN-r18                   INTEGER (1..1000)                                                      OPTIONAL,    -- Need R
    sl-PosSSB-PriorityNR-r18              INTEGER (1..8)                                                         OPTIONAL,    -- Need R
    ...
}

-- TAG-SIB23-STOP
-- ASN1STOP





–	SIB24
SIB24 contains the information required to acquire the multicast MCCH/MTCH configuration for MBS multicast reception in RRC_INACTIVE.
SIB24 information element
-- ASN1START
-- TAG-SIB24-START

SIB24-r18 ::= SEQUENCE {
    multicastMCCH-Config-r18       MCCH-Config-r17         OPTIONAL,  -- Need S
    cfr-ConfigMCCH-MTCH-r18        CFR-ConfigMCCH-MTCH-r17 OPTIONAL,  -- Need S
    lateNonCriticalExtension       OCTET STRING            OPTIONAL,
    ...
}

-- TAG-SIB24-STOP
-- ASN1STOP



–	SIB25
SIB25 contains TN coverage information to assist neighbour cell measurements for the UEs in an NTN cell.
SIB25 information element
-- ASN1START
-- TAG-SIB25-START

SIB25-r18 ::=                  SEQUENCE {
    coverageAreaInfoList-r18       CoverageAreaInfoList-r18         OPTIONAL,  -- Need R
    lateNonCriticalExtension       OCTET STRING                     OPTIONAL,
    ...
}

CoverageAreaInfoList-r18 ::=   SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxTN-AreaInfo-r18)) OF CoverageAreaInfo-r18

CoverageAreaInfo-r18 ::=       SEQUENCE {
    tn-AreaId-r18                  TN-AreaId-r18,
    tn-ReferenceLocation-r18       ReferenceLocation-r17,
    tn-DistanceRadius-r18          INTEGER(0..65535)
}

-- TAG-SIB25-STOP
-- ASN1STOP



6.3.1a	Positioning System information blocks
–	PosSystemInformation-r16-IEs
-- ASN1START
-- TAG-POSSYSTEMINFORMATION-R16-IES-START

PosSystemInformation-r16-IEs ::= SEQUENCE {
    posSIB-TypeAndInfo-r16           SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxSIB)) OF CHOICE {
        posSib1-1-r16                    SIBpos-r16,
        posSib1-2-r16                    SIBpos-r16,
        posSib1-3-r16                    SIBpos-r16,
        posSib1-4-r16                    SIBpos-r16,
        posSib1-5-r16                    SIBpos-r16,
        posSib1-6-r16                    SIBpos-r16,
        posSib1-7-r16                    SIBpos-r16,
        posSib1-8-r16                    SIBpos-r16,
        posSib2-1-r16                    SIBpos-r16,
        posSib2-2-r16                    SIBpos-r16,
        posSib2-3-r16                    SIBpos-r16,
        posSib2-4-r16                    SIBpos-r16,
        posSib2-5-r16                    SIBpos-r16,
        posSib2-6-r16                    SIBpos-r16,
        posSib2-7-r16                    SIBpos-r16,
        posSib2-8-r16                    SIBpos-r16,
        posSib2-9-r16                    SIBpos-r16,
        posSib2-10-r16                   SIBpos-r16,
        posSib2-11-r16                   SIBpos-r16,
        posSib2-12-r16                   SIBpos-r16,
        posSib2-13-r16                   SIBpos-r16,
        posSib2-14-r16                   SIBpos-r16,
        posSib2-15-r16                   SIBpos-r16,
        posSib2-16-r16                   SIBpos-r16,
        posSib2-17-r16                   SIBpos-r16,
        posSib2-18-r16                   SIBpos-r16,
        posSib2-19-r16                   SIBpos-r16,
        posSib2-20-r16                   SIBpos-r16,
        posSib2-21-r16                   SIBpos-r16,
        posSib2-22-r16                   SIBpos-r16,
        posSib2-23-r16                   SIBpos-r16,
        posSib3-1-r16                    SIBpos-r16,
        posSib4-1-r16                    SIBpos-r16,
        posSib5-1-r16                    SIBpos-r16,
        posSib6-1-r16                    SIBpos-r16,
        posSib6-2-r16                    SIBpos-r16,
        posSib6-3-r16                    SIBpos-r16,
        ... ,
        posSib1-9-v1700                  SIBpos-r16,
        posSib1-10-v1700                 SIBpos-r16,
        posSib2-24-v1700                 SIBpos-r16,
        posSib2-25-v1700                 SIBpos-r16,
        posSib6-4-v1700                  SIBpos-r16,
        posSib6-5-v1700                  SIBpos-r16,
        posSib6-6-v1700                  SIBpos-r16,
        posSib2-17a-v1770                SIBpos-r16,
        posSib2-18a-v1770                SIBpos-r16,
        posSib2-20a-v1770                SIBpos-r16,
        posSib1-11-v1800                 SIBpos-r16,
        posSib1-12-v1800                 SIBpos-r16,
        posSib2-26-v1800                 SIBpos-r16,
        posSib2-27-v1800                 SIBpos-r16,
        posSib6-7-v1800                  SIBpos-r16,
        posSib7-1-v1800                  SIBpos-r16,
        posSib7-2-v1800                  SIBpos-r16,
        posSib7-3-v1800                  SIBpos-r16,
        posSib7-4-v1800                  SIBpos-r16

    },
    lateNonCriticalExtension             OCTET STRING                        OPTIONAL,
    nonCriticalExtension                 SEQUENCE {}                         OPTIONAL
}

-- TAG-POSSYSTEMINFORMATION-R16-IES-STOP
-- ASN1STOP

–	PosSI-SchedulingInfo
-- ASN1START
-- TAG-POSSI-SCHEDULINGINFO-START

PosSI-SchedulingInfo-r16 ::=               SEQUENCE {
    posSchedulingInfoList-r16                  SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxSI-Message)) OF PosSchedulingInfo-r16,
    posSI-RequestConfig-r16                        SI-RequestConfig                                 OPTIONAL,  -- Cond MSG-1
    posSI-RequestConfigSUL-r16                     SI-RequestConfig                                 OPTIONAL,  -- Cond SUL-MSG-1
    ...,
    [[
    posSI-RequestConfigRedCap-r17                  SI-RequestConfig                                 OPTIONAL   -- Cond REDCAP-MSG-1
    ]],
    [[
    posSI-RequestConfigMSG1-Repetition-r18         SI-RequestConfigRepetition-r18                   OPTIONAL,  -- Cond MSG-1
    posSI-RequestConfigSUL-MSG1-Repetition-r18     SI-RequestConfigRepetition-r18                   OPTIONAL,  -- Cond SUL-MSG-1
    posSI-RequestConfigRedCap-MSG1-Repetition-r18  SI-RequestConfigRepetition-r18                   OPTIONAL   -- Cond REDCAP-MSG-1
    ]]
}

PosSchedulingInfo-r16 ::= SEQUENCE {
    offsetToSI-Used-r16          ENUMERATED {true}                                              OPTIONAL,  -- Need R
    posSI-Periodicity-r16        ENUMERATED {rf8, rf16, rf32, rf64, rf128, rf256, rf512},
    posSI-BroadcastStatus-r16    ENUMERATED {broadcasting, notBroadcasting},
    posSIB-MappingInfo-r16       PosSIB-MappingInfo-r16,
    ...
}

PosSIB-MappingInfo-r16 ::=   SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxSIB)) OF PosSIB-Type-r16

PosSIB-Type-r16 ::=          SEQUENCE {
    encrypted-r16                ENUMERATED { true }                                            OPTIONAL,  -- Need R
    gnss-id-r16                  GNSS-ID-r16                                                    OPTIONAL,  -- Need R
    sbas-id-r16                  SBAS-ID-r16                                                    OPTIONAL,  -- Cond GNSS-ID-SBAS
    posSibType-r16               ENUMERATED { posSibType1-1, posSibType1-2, posSibType1-3, posSibType1-4, posSibType1-5, posSibType1-6,
                                              posSibType1-7, posSibType1-8, posSibType2-1, posSibType2-2, posSibType2-3, posSibType2-4,
                                              posSibType2-5, posSibType2-6, posSibType2-7, posSibType2-8, posSibType2-9, posSibType2-10,
                                              posSibType2-11, posSibType2-12, posSibType2-13, posSibType2-14, posSibType2-15,
                                              posSibType2-16, posSibType2-17, posSibType2-18, posSibType2-19, posSibType2-20,
                                              posSibType2-21, posSibType2-22, posSibType2-23, posSibType3-1, posSibType4-1,
                                              posSibType5-1,posSibType6-1, posSibType6-2, posSibType6-3,... },
    areaScope-r16                ENUMERATED {true}                                              OPTIONAL -- Need S
}

GNSS-ID-r16 ::= SEQUENCE {
    gnss-id-r16              ENUMERATED{gps, sbas, qzss, galileo, glonass, bds, ..., navic-v1760},
    ...
}

SBAS-ID-r16 ::= SEQUENCE {
    sbas-id-r16              ENUMERATED { waas, egnos, msas, gagan, ...},
    ...
}

-- TAG-POSSI-SCHEDULINGINFO-STOP
-- ASN1STOP





–	SIBpos
The IE SIBpos contains positioning assistance data as defined in TS 37.355 [49].
SIBpos information element
-- ASN1START
-- TAG-SIPOS-START

SIBpos-r16 ::= SEQUENCE {
    assistanceDataSIB-Element-r16        OCTET STRING,
    lateNonCriticalExtension             OCTET STRING                        OPTIONAL,
    ...
}

-- TAG-SIPOS-STOP
-- ASN1STOP



6.3.2	Radio resource control information elements
–	AdditionalPCIIndex
The IE AdditionalPCIIndex identifies an additional physical cell identity (PCI) configured with additionalPCI-ToAddModList-r17 in ServingCellConfig.
AdditionalPCIIndex information element
-- ASN1START
-- TAG-ADDITIONALPCIINDEX-START

AdditionalPCIIndex-r17  ::=  INTEGER(1..maxNrofAdditionalPCI-r17)

-- TAG-ADDITIONALPCIINDEX-STOP
-- ASN1STOP

–	AdditionalSpectrumEmission
The IE AdditionalSpectrumEmission is used to indicate emission requirements to be fulfilled by the UE (see TS 38.101-1 [15], clause 6.2.3/6.2A.3, TS 38.101-2 [39], clause 6.2.3/6.2A.3, and TS 38.101-5 [75], clause 6.2.3). If an extension is signalled using the extended value range (as defined by the IE AdditionalSpectrumEmission-v1760), the corresponding original field, using the value range as defined by the IE AdditionalSpectrumEmission (without suffix) shall be set to value 7.
AdditionalSpectrumEmission information element
-- ASN1START
-- TAG-ADDITIONALSPECTRUMEMISSION-START

AdditionalSpectrumEmission ::=              INTEGER (0..7)

AdditionalSpectrumEmission-v1760 ::=        INTEGER (8..39)

AdditionalSpectrumEmission-r18 ::=          INTEGER (0..39)

-- TAG-ADDITIONALSPECTRUMEMISSION-STOP
-- ASN1STOP

–	AdvancedReceiver-MU-MIMO
The IE AdvancedReceiver-MU-MIMO is used to provide a set of assistance information for R-ML (reduced complexity ML) receivers with enhanced inter-user interference suppression for MU-MIMO transmissions.
AdvancedReceiver-MU-MIMO information element
-- ASN1START
-- TAG-ADVANCEDRECEIVER-MU-MIMO-START

AdvancedReceiver-MU-MIMO-r18 ::=      SEQUENCE {
    precodingAndResourceAllocation-r18    BOOLEAN                                                OPTIONAL,    -- Need M
    pdsch-TimeDomainAllocation-r18        BOOLEAN                                                OPTIONAL,    -- Need M
    mcs-Table-r18                         ENUMERATED {qam1024, qam256, qam64, spare1}            OPTIONAL,    -- Need R
    advReceiver-MU-MIMO-DCI-1-1-r18       ENUMERATED {enabled}                                   OPTIONAL,    -- Need R
    ...
}

-- TAG-ADVANCEDRECEIVER-MU-MIMO-STOP
-- ASN1STOP



NOTE:	the same DMRS sequence represents the same root DMRS sequence r(n), see TS 38.211 [16], clause 7.4.1.1.1.

–	Aerial-Config
The IE Aerial-Config provides configuration parameters for aerial UE.
Aerial-Config information element
-- ASN1START
-- TAG-AERIAL-CONFIG-START

Aerial-Config-r18 ::= SEQUENCE {
    flightPathUpdateThrConfig-r18     SEQUENCE {
        flightPathUpdateDistanceThr-r18   SetupRelease { FlightPathUpdateDistanceThr-r18 }        OPTIONAL, -- Need M
        flightPathUpdateTimeThr-r18       SetupRelease { FlightPathUpdateTimeThr-r18 }            OPTIONAL  -- Need M
    }                                                                                             OPTIONAL, -- Need M
    ...
}

FlightPathUpdateDistanceThr-r18 ::=   INTEGER (0..1023)

FlightPathUpdateTimeThr-r18 ::=       INTEGER (0..16383)

-- TAG-AERIAL-CONFIG-STOP
-- ASN1STOP



–	Alpha
The IE Alpha defines possible values of a the pathloss compensation coefficient for uplink power control. Value alpha0 corresponds to the value 0, Value alpha04 corresponds to the value 0.4, Value alpha05 corresponds to the value 0.5 and so on. Value alpha1 corresponds to value 1. See also clause 7.1 of TS 38.213 [13].
-- ASN1START
-- TAG-ALPHA-START

Alpha ::=                       ENUMERATED {alpha0, alpha04, alpha05, alpha06, alpha07, alpha08, alpha09, alpha1}

-- TAG-ALPHA-STOP
-- ASN1STOP

–	Altitude
The IE Altitude is used to indicate altitude relative to sea level. The actual value is the field value in meters.
Altitude information element
-- ASN1START
-- TAG-ALTITUDE-START

Altitude-r18 ::=              INTEGER (minAltitude-r18..maxAltitude-r18)

-- TAG-ALTITUDE-STOP
-- ASN1STOP

–	AMF-Identifier
The IE AMF-Identifier (AMFI) comprises of an AMF Region ID, an AMF Set ID and an AMF Pointer as specified in TS 23.003 [21], clause 2.10.1.
AMF-Identifier information element
-- ASN1START
-- TAG-AMF-IDENTIFIER-START

AMF-Identifier ::=                      BIT STRING (SIZE (24))

-- TAG-AMF-IDENTIFIER-STOP
-- ASN1STOP

–	ARFCN-ValueEUTRA
The IE ARFCN-ValueEUTRA is used to indicate the ARFCN applicable for a downlink, uplink or bi-directional (TDD) E-UTRA carrier frequency, as defined in TS 36.101 [22].
ARFCN-ValueEUTRA information element
-- ASN1START
-- TAG-ARFCN-VALUEEUTRA-START

ARFCN-ValueEUTRA ::=                INTEGER (0..maxEARFCN)

-- TAG-ARFCN-VALUEEUTRA-STOP
-- ASN1STOP

–	ARFCN-ValueNR
The IE ARFCN-ValueNR is used to indicate the ARFCN applicable for a downlink, uplink or bi-directional (TDD) NR global frequency raster, as defined in TS 38.101-1 [15], TS 38.101-2 [39] and TS 38.101-5 [75], clause 5.4.2.
-- ASN1START
-- TAG-ARFCN-VALUENR-START

ARFCN-ValueNR ::=               INTEGER (0..maxNARFCN)

-- TAG-ARFCN-VALUENR-STOP
-- ASN1STOP

–	ARFCN-ValueUTRA-FDD
The IE ARFCN-ValueUTRA-FDD is used to indicate the ARFCN applicable for a downlink (Nd, FDD) UTRA-FDD carrier frequency, as defined in TS 25.331 [45].
ARFCN-ValueUTRA-FDD information element
-- ASN1START
-- TAG-ARFCN-ValueUTRA-FDD-START

ARFCN-ValueUTRA-FDD-r16 ::=                INTEGER (0..16383)

-- TAG-ARFCN-ValueUTRA-FDD-STOP
-- ASN1STOP

–	ATG-Config
The IE ATG-Config provides parameters needed for the UE to access NR via ATG access.
ATG-Config information element
-- ASN1START
-- TAG-ATG-CONFIG-START

ATG-Config-r18 ::=          SEQUENCE {
    atg-gNB-Location-r18         ReferenceLocation-r17                                 OPTIONAL,    -- Need R
    height-gNB-r18                INTEGER (-16384..16383)                               OPTIONAL,    -- Need R
    cellSpecificKoffset-r18      INTEGER(1..3)                                         OPTIONAL,    -- Need R
    ta-ReportATG-r18             ENUMERATED {enabled}                                  OPTIONAL     -- Need R
}

-- TAG-ATG-CONFIG-STOP
-- ASN1STOP



–	AvailabilityCombinationsPerCell
The IE AvailabilityCombinationsPerCell is used to configure the AvailabilityCombinations applicable for a cell of the IAB DU (see TS 38.213 [13], clause 14). Note that the IE AvailabilityCombinationsPerCellIndex can only be configured up to 511.
AvailabilityCombinationsPerCell information element
-- ASN1START
-- TAG-AVAILABILITYCOMBINATIONSPERCELL-START

AvailabilityCombinationsPerCell-r16 ::=     SEQUENCE {
    availabilityCombinationsPerCellIndex-r16     AvailabilityCombinationsPerCellIndex-r16,
    iab-DU-CellIdentity-r16                      CellIdentity,
    positionInDCI-AI-r16                         INTEGER(0..maxAI-DCI-PayloadSize-1-r16)                              OPTIONAL, -- Need M
    availabilityCombinations-r16                 SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxNrofAvailabilityCombinationsPerSet-r16)) OF AvailabilityCombination-r16,
    ...,
    [[
    availabilityCombinationsRB-Groups-r17   SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxNrofAvailabilityCombinationsPerSet-r16)) OF
                                                                              AvailabilityCombinationRB-Groups-r17    OPTIONAL -- Need M
    ]],
    [[
    positionInDCI-AI-RBGroups-v1720              INTEGER(0..maxAI-DCI-PayloadSize-1-r16)                              OPTIONAL -- Need M
    ]]
}

AvailabilityCombinationsPerCellIndex-r16 ::= INTEGER(0..maxNrofDUCells-r16)

AvailabilityCombination-r16 ::=         SEQUENCE {
    availabilityCombinationId-r16           AvailabilityCombinationId-r16,
    resourceAvailability-r16                SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxNrofResourceAvailabilityPerCombination-r16)) OF INTEGER (0..7)
}

AvailabilityCombinationId-r16 ::=       INTEGER (0..maxNrofAvailabilityCombinationsPerSet-1-r16)

AvailabilityCombinationRB-Groups-r17 ::= SEQUENCE {
    availabilityCombinationId-r17    AvailabilityCombinationId-r16,
    rb-SetGroups-r17                  SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxNrofRB-SetGroups-r17)) OF RB-SetGroup-r17                           OPTIONAL, -- Need R
    resourceAvailability-r17         SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxNrofResourceAvailabilityPerCombination-r16)) OF INTEGER (0..7)    OPTIONAL -- Need R
}

RB-SetGroup-r17 ::=       SEQUENCE {
    resourceAvailability-r17  SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxNrofResourceAvailabilityPerCombination-r16)) OF INTEGER (0..7) OPTIONAL, -- Need R
    rb-Sets-r17                SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxNrofRB-Sets-r17)) OF INTEGER (0..7)                             OPTIONAL  -- Need R
}

-- TAG-AVAILABILITYCOMBINATIONSPERCELL-STOP
-- ASN1STOP







–	AvailabilityIndicator
The IE AvailabilityIndicator is used to configure monitoring a PDCCH for Availability Indicators (AI).
AvailabilityIndicator information element
-- ASN1START
-- TAG-AVAILABILITYINDICATOR-START

AvailabilityIndicator-r16 ::=    SEQUENCE {
    ai-RNTI-r16                      AI-RNTI-r16,
    dci-PayloadSizeAI-r16            INTEGER (1..maxAI-DCI-PayloadSize-r16),
    availableCombToAddModList-r16    SEQUENCE (SIZE(1..maxNrofDUCells-r16)) OF AvailabilityCombinationsPerCell-r16          OPTIONAL, -- Need N
    availableCombToReleaseList-r16   SEQUENCE (SIZE(1..maxNrofDUCells-r16)) OF AvailabilityCombinationsPerCellIndex-r16     OPTIONAL, -- Need N
    ...
}

AI-RNTI-r16 ::=                      RNTI-Value

-- TAG-AVAILABILITYINDICATOR-STOP
-- ASN1STOP



–	BAP-RoutingID
The IE BAP-RoutingID is used for IAB-node to configure the BAP Routing ID.
BAP-RoutingID information element
-- ASN1START
-- TAG-BAPROUTINGID-START

BAP-RoutingID-r16::=        SEQUENCE{
    bap-Address-r16              BIT STRING (SIZE (10)),
    bap-PathId-r16               BIT STRING (SIZE (10))
}

-- TAG-BAPROUTINGID-STOP
-- ASN1STOP



–	BeamFailureRecoveryConfig
The IE BeamFailureRecoveryConfig is used to configure the UE with RACH resources and candidate beams for beam failure recovery in case of beam failure detection. See also TS 38.321 [3], clause 5.1.1.
BeamFailureRecoveryConfig information element
-- ASN1START
-- TAG-BEAMFAILURERECOVERYCONFIG-START

BeamFailureRecoveryConfig ::=       SEQUENCE {
    rootSequenceIndex-BFR               INTEGER (0..137)                                                          OPTIONAL, -- Need M
    rach-ConfigBFR                      RACH-ConfigGeneric                                                        OPTIONAL, -- Need M
    rsrp-ThresholdSSB                   RSRP-Range                                                                OPTIONAL, -- Need M
    candidateBeamRSList                 SEQUENCE (SIZE(1..maxNrofCandidateBeams)) OF PRACH-ResourceDedicatedBFR   OPTIONAL, -- Need M
    ssb-perRACH-Occasion                ENUMERATED {oneEighth, oneFourth, oneHalf, one, two,
                                                       four, eight, sixteen}                                      OPTIONAL, -- Need M
    ra-ssb-OccasionMaskIndex            INTEGER (0..15)                                                           OPTIONAL, -- Need M
    recoverySearchSpaceId               SearchSpaceId                                                             OPTIONAL, -- Need R
    ra-Prioritization                   RA-Prioritization                                                         OPTIONAL, -- Need R
    beamFailureRecoveryTimer            ENUMERATED {ms10, ms20, ms40, ms60, ms80, ms100, ms150, ms200}            OPTIONAL, -- Need M
    ...,
    [[
    msg1-SubcarrierSpacing              SubcarrierSpacing                                                         OPTIONAL  -- Need M
    ]],
    [[
    ra-PrioritizationTwoStep-r16        RA-Prioritization                                                         OPTIONAL, -- Need R
    candidateBeamRSListExt-v1610        SetupRelease{ CandidateBeamRSListExt-r16 }                                OPTIONAL  -- Need M
    ]],
    [[
    spCell-BFR-CBRA-r16                 ENUMERATED {true}                                                         OPTIONAL  -- Need R
    ]]
}

PRACH-ResourceDedicatedBFR ::=      CHOICE {
    ssb                                 BFR-SSB-Resource,
    csi-RS                              BFR-CSIRS-Resource
}

BFR-SSB-Resource ::=                SEQUENCE {
    ssb                                 SSB-Index,
    ra-PreambleIndex                    INTEGER (0..63),
    ...
}

BFR-CSIRS-Resource ::=              SEQUENCE {
    csi-RS                              NZP-CSI-RS-ResourceId,
    ra-OccasionList                     SEQUENCE (SIZE(1..maxRA-OccasionsPerCSIRS)) OF INTEGER (0..maxRA-Occasions-1)   OPTIONAL,   -- Need R
    ra-PreambleIndex                    INTEGER (0..63)                                                                 OPTIONAL,   -- Need R
    ...
}

CandidateBeamRSListExt-r16::=       SEQUENCE (SIZE(1.. maxNrofCandidateBeamsExt-r16)) OF PRACH-ResourceDedicatedBFR

-- TAG-BEAMFAILURERECOVERYCONFIG-STOP
-- ASN1STOP







–	BeamFailureRecoveryRSConfig
The IE BeamFailureRecoveryRSConfig is used to configure the UE with candidate beams for beam failure recovery in case of beam failure detection. See also TS 38.321 [3], clause 5.17.
BeamFailureRecoveryRSConfig information element
-- ASN1START
-- TAG-BEAMFAILURERECOVERYRSCONFIG-START

BeamFailureRecoveryRSConfig-r16 ::= SEQUENCE {
    rsrp-ThresholdBFR-r16               RSRP-Range                                                               OPTIONAL, -- Need M
    candidateBeamRS-List-r16            SEQUENCE (SIZE(1..maxNrofCandidateBeams-r16)) OF CandidateBeamRS-r16     OPTIONAL, -- Need M
    ...,
    [[
    candidateBeamRS-List2-r17            SEQUENCE (SIZE(1..maxNrofCandidateBeams-r16)) OF CandidateBeamRS-r16     OPTIONAL  -- Need R
    ]]
}

-- TAG-BEAMFAILURERECOVERYRSCONFIG-STOP
-- ASN1STOP



–	BetaOffsets
The IE BetaOffsets is used to configure beta-offset values, see TS 38.213 [13], clause 9.3.
BetaOffsets information element
-- ASN1START
-- TAG-BETAOFFSETS-START

BetaOffsets ::=                     SEQUENCE {
    betaOffsetACK-Index1                INTEGER(0..31)                                                          OPTIONAL, -- Need S
    betaOffsetACK-Index2                INTEGER(0..31)                                                          OPTIONAL, -- Need S
    betaOffsetACK-Index3                INTEGER(0..31)                                                          OPTIONAL, -- Need S
    betaOffsetCSI-Part1-Index1          INTEGER(0..31)                                                          OPTIONAL, -- Need S
    betaOffsetCSI-Part1-Index2          INTEGER(0..31)                                                          OPTIONAL, -- Need S
    betaOffsetCSI-Part2-Index1          INTEGER(0..31)                                                          OPTIONAL, -- Need S
    betaOffsetCSI-Part2-Index2          INTEGER(0..31)                                                          OPTIONAL  -- Need S
}

-- TAG-BETAOFFSETS-STOP
-- ASN1STOP



–	BetaOffsetsCrossPri
The IE BetaOffsetsCrossPri is used to configure beta-offset values for cross-priority HARQ-ACK multiplexing on PUSCH.
BetaOffsetsCrossPri information element
-- ASN1START
-- TAG-BETAOFFSETSCROSSPRI-START

BetaOffsetsCrossPri-r17 ::= SEQUENCE (SIZE(3)) OF INTEGER(0..31)

-- TAG-BETAOFFSETSCROSSPRI-STOP
-- ASN1STOP

–	BH-LogicalChannelIdentity
The IE BH-LogicalChannelIdentity is used to identify a logical channel between an IAB-node and its parent IAB-node or IAB-donor-DU.
BH-LogicalChannelIdentity information element
-- ASN1START
-- TAG-BHLOGICALCHANNELIDENTITY-START

BH-LogicalChannelIdentity-r16 ::=    CHOICE {
    bh-LogicalChannelIdentity-r16        LogicalChannelIdentity,
    bh-LogicalChannelIdentityExt-r16     BH-LogicalChannelIdentity-Ext-r16
}

-- TAG-BHLOGICALCHANNELIDENTITY-STOP
-- ASN1STOP



–	BH-LogicalChannelIdentity-Ext
The IE BH-LogicalChannelIdentity-Ext is used to identify a logical channel between an IAB-node and its parent node.
BH-LogicalChannelIdentity-Ext information element
-- ASN1START
-- TAG-BHLOGICALCHANNELIDENTITYEXT-START

BH-LogicalChannelIdentity-Ext-r16 ::=   INTEGER (320.. maxLC-ID-Iab-r16)

-- TAG-BHLOGICALCHANNELIDENTITYEXT-STOP
-- ASN1STOP

–	BH-RLC-ChannelConfig
The IE BH-RLC-ChannelConfig is used to configure an RLC entity, a corresponding logical channel in MAC for BH RLC channel between IAB-node and its parent node.
BH-RLC-ChannelConfig information element
-- ASN1START
-- TAG-BHRLCCHANNELCONFIG-START

BH-RLC-ChannelConfig-r16::=      SEQUENCE {
    bh-LogicalChannelIdentity-r16    BH-LogicalChannelIdentity-r16     OPTIONAL,   -- Cond LCH-SetupOnly
    bh-RLC-ChannelID-r16             BH-RLC-ChannelID-r16,
    reestablishRLC-r16               ENUMERATED {true}                 OPTIONAL,   -- Need N
    rlc-Config-r16                   RLC-Config                        OPTIONAL,   -- Cond LCH-Setup
    mac-LogicalChannelConfig-r16     LogicalChannelConfig              OPTIONAL,   -- Cond LCH-Setup
    ...
}

-- TAG-BHRLCCHANNELCONFIG-STOP
-- ASN1STOP





–	BH-RLC-ChannelID
The IE BH-RLC-ChannelID is used to identify a BH RLC channel in the link between IAB-MT of the IAB-node and IAB-DU of the parent IAB-node or IAB-donor-DU.
BH-RLC-ChannelID information element
-- ASN1START
-- TAG-BHRLCCHANNELID-START

BH-RLC-ChannelID-r16 ::=    BIT STRING (SIZE (16))

-- TAG-BHRLCCHANNELID-STOP
-- ASN1STOP

–	BSR-Config
The IE BSR-Config is used to configure buffer status reporting.
BSR-Config information element
-- ASN1START
-- TAG-BSR-CONFIG-START

BSR-Config ::=                      SEQUENCE {
    periodicBSR-Timer                   ENUMERATED { sf1, sf5, sf10, sf16, sf20, sf32, sf40, sf64,
                                                        sf80, sf128, sf160, sf320, sf640, sf1280, sf2560, infinity },
    retxBSR-Timer                       ENUMERATED { sf10, sf20, sf40, sf80, sf160, sf320, sf640, sf1280, sf2560,
                                                        sf5120, sf10240, spare5, spare4, spare3, spare2, spare1},
    logicalChannelSR-DelayTimer         ENUMERATED { sf20, sf40, sf64, sf128, sf512, sf1024, sf2560, spare1}                OPTIONAL, -- Need R
    ...
}

-- TAG-BSR-CONFIG-STOP
-- ASN1STOP



–	BWP
The IE BWP is used to configure generic parameters of a bandwidth part as defined in TS 38.211 [16], clause 4.5, and TS 38.213 [13], clause 12.
For each serving cell the network configures at least an initial downlink bandwidth part and one (if the serving cell is configured with an uplink) or two (if using supplementary uplink (SUL)) initial uplink bandwidth parts. Furthermore, the network may configure additional uplink and downlink bandwidth parts for a serving cell.
The uplink and downlink bandwidth part configurations are divided into common and dedicated parameters.
BWP information element
-- ASN1START
-- TAG-BWP-START

BWP ::=                             SEQUENCE {
    locationAndBandwidth                INTEGER (0..37949),
    subcarrierSpacing                   SubcarrierSpacing,
    cyclicPrefix                        ENUMERATED { extended }                                                 OPTIONAL    -- Need R
}

-- TAG-BWP-STOP
-- ASN1STOP



–	BWP-Downlink
The IE BWP-Downlink is used to configure an additional downlink bandwidth part (not for the initial BWP).
BWP-Downlink information element
-- ASN1START
-- TAG-BWP-DOWNLINK-START

BWP-Downlink ::=                    SEQUENCE {
    bwp-Id                              BWP-Id,
    bwp-Common                          BWP-DownlinkCommon                                         OPTIONAL,   -- Cond SetupOtherBWP
    bwp-Dedicated                       BWP-DownlinkDedicated                                      OPTIONAL,   -- Cond SetupOtherBWP
    ...
}

-- TAG-BWP-DOWNLINK-STOP
-- ASN1STOP





–	BWP-DownlinkCommon
The IE BWP-DownlinkCommon is used to configure the common parameters of a downlink BWP. They are "cell specific" and the network ensures the necessary alignment with corresponding parameters of other UEs. The common parameters of the initial bandwidth part of the PCell are also provided via system information. For all other serving cells, the network provides the common parameters via dedicated signalling.
BWP-DownlinkCommon information element
-- ASN1START
-- TAG-BWP-DOWNLINKCOMMON-START

BWP-DownlinkCommon ::=              SEQUENCE {
    genericParameters                   BWP,
    pdcch-ConfigCommon                  SetupRelease { PDCCH-ConfigCommon }                                     OPTIONAL,   -- Need M
    pdsch-ConfigCommon                  SetupRelease { PDSCH-ConfigCommon }                                     OPTIONAL,   -- Need M
    ...
}

-- TAG-BWP-DOWNLINKCOMMON-STOP
-- ASN1STOP



–	BWP-DownlinkDedicated
The IE BWP-DownlinkDedicated is used to configure the dedicated (UE specific) parameters of a downlink BWP.
BWP-DownlinkDedicated information element
-- ASN1START
-- TAG-BWP-DOWNLINKDEDICATED-START

BWP-DownlinkDedicated ::=           SEQUENCE {
    pdcch-Config                        SetupRelease { PDCCH-Config }                                     OPTIONAL,   -- Need M
    pdsch-Config                        SetupRelease { PDSCH-Config }                                     OPTIONAL,   -- Need M
    sps-Config                          SetupRelease { SPS-Config }                                       OPTIONAL,   -- Need M
    radioLinkMonitoringConfig           SetupRelease { RadioLinkMonitoringConfig }                        OPTIONAL,   -- Need M
    ...,
    [[
    sps-ConfigToAddModList-r16          SPS-ConfigToAddModList-r16                                        OPTIONAL,   -- Need N
    sps-ConfigToReleaseList-r16         SPS-ConfigToReleaseList-r16                                       OPTIONAL,   -- Need N
    sps-ConfigDeactivationStateList-r16 SPS-ConfigDeactivationStateList-r16                               OPTIONAL,   -- Need R
    beamFailureRecoverySCellConfig-r16  SetupRelease {BeamFailureRecoveryRSConfig-r16}                    OPTIONAL,   -- Cond SCellOnly
    sl-PDCCH-Config-r16                 SetupRelease { PDCCH-Config }                                     OPTIONAL,   -- Need M
    sl-V2X-PDCCH-Config-r16             SetupRelease { PDCCH-Config }                                     OPTIONAL    -- Need M
    ]],
    [[
    preConfGapStatus-r17                BIT STRING (SIZE (maxNrofGapId-r17))                              OPTIONAL,   -- Cond PreConfigMG
    beamFailureRecoverySpCellConfig-r17 SetupRelease { BeamFailureRecoveryRSConfig-r16}                   OPTIONAL,   -- Cond SpCellOnly
    harq-FeedbackEnablingforSPSactive-r17 BOOLEAN                                                         OPTIONAL,   -- Need R
    cfr-ConfigMulticast-r17             SetupRelease { CFR-ConfigMulticast-r17 }                          OPTIONAL,   -- Need M
    dl-PPW-PreConfigToAddModList-r17    DL-PPW-PreConfigToAddModList-r17                                  OPTIONAL,   -- Need N
    dl-PPW-PreConfigToReleaseList-r17   DL-PPW-PreConfigToReleaseList-r17                                 OPTIONAL,   -- Need N
    nonCellDefiningSSB-r17              NonCellDefiningSSB-r17                                            OPTIONAL,   -- Need R
    servingCellMO-r17                   MeasObjectId                                                  OPTIONAL -- Cond MeasObject-NCD-SSB
    ]],
    [[
    tci-InDCI-r18                       SetupRelease {TCI-InDCI-r18}                                      OPTIONAL    -- Need M
    ]]
}

SPS-ConfigToAddModList-r16 ::=          SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxNrofSPS-Config-r16)) OF SPS-Config

SPS-ConfigToReleaseList-r16 ::=         SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxNrofSPS-Config-r16)) OF SPS-ConfigIndex-r16

SPS-ConfigDeactivationState-r16 ::=     SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxNrofSPS-Config-r16)) OF SPS-ConfigIndex-r16

SPS-ConfigDeactivationStateList-r16 ::= SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxNrofSPS-DeactivationState)) OF SPS-ConfigDeactivationState-r16

DL-PPW-PreConfigToAddModList-r17 ::=    SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxNrofPPW-Config-r17)) OF DL-PPW-PreConfig-r17

DL-PPW-PreConfigToReleaseList-r17 ::=   SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxNrofPPW-Config-r17)) OF DL-PPW-ID-r17

TCI-InDCI-r18 ::=                   SEQUENCE {
    tci-SelectionPresentInDCI-r18       ENUMERATED { enabled }                                            OPTIONAL,   -- Need R
    applyIndicatedTCI-StateDCI-1-0-r18  ENUMERATED {first, second, both, spare1}                          OPTIONAL    -- Need R
}

-- TAG-BWP-DOWNLINKDEDICATED-STOP
-- ASN1STOP







–	BWP-Id
The IE BWP-Id is used to refer to Bandwidth Parts (BWP). The initial BWP (including RedCap-specific initial BWP, if configured) is referred to by BWP-Id 0. The other BWPs are referred to by BWP-Id 1 to maxNrofBWPs.
BWP-Id information element
-- ASN1START
-- TAG-BWP-ID-START

BWP-Id ::=                          INTEGER (0..maxNrofBWPs)

-- TAG-BWP-ID-STOP
-- ASN1STOP

–	BWP-Uplink
The IE BWP-Uplink is used to configure an additional uplink bandwidth part (not for the initial BWP).
BWP-Uplink information element
-- ASN1START
-- TAG-BWP-UPLINK-START

BWP-Uplink ::=                      SEQUENCE {
    bwp-Id                              BWP-Id,
    bwp-Common                          BWP-UplinkCommon                                            OPTIONAL,   -- Cond SetupOtherBWP
    bwp-Dedicated                       BWP-UplinkDedicated                                         OPTIONAL,   -- Cond SetupOtherBWP
    ...
}

-- TAG-BWP-UPLINK-STOP
-- ASN1STOP





–	BWP-UplinkCommon
The IE BWP-UplinkCommon is used to configure the common parameters of an uplink BWP. They are "cell specific" and the network ensures the necessary alignment with corresponding parameters of other UEs. The common parameters of the initial bandwidth part of the PCell, excluding additionalRACH-perPCI-ToAddModList and additionalRACH-perPCI-ToReleaseList, are also provided via system information. For all other serving cells, the network provides the common parameters via dedicated signalling.
BWP-UplinkCommon information element
-- ASN1START
-- TAG-BWP-UPLINKCOMMON-START

BWP-UplinkCommon ::=                SEQUENCE {
    genericParameters                   BWP,
    rach-ConfigCommon                   SetupRelease { RACH-ConfigCommon }                                      OPTIONAL,   -- Need M
    pusch-ConfigCommon                  SetupRelease { PUSCH-ConfigCommon }                                     OPTIONAL,   -- Need M
    pucch-ConfigCommon                  SetupRelease { PUCCH-ConfigCommon }                                     OPTIONAL,   -- Need M
    ...,
    [[
    rach-ConfigCommonIAB-r16            SetupRelease { RACH-ConfigCommon }                                      OPTIONAL,   -- Need M
    useInterlacePUCCH-PUSCH-r16         ENUMERATED {enabled}                                                    OPTIONAL,   -- Need R
    msgA-ConfigCommon-r16               SetupRelease { MsgA-ConfigCommon-r16 }                                  OPTIONAL    -- Cond SpCellOnly2
    ]],
    [[
    enableRA-PrioritizationForSlicing-r17 BOOLEAN                                                    OPTIONAL, -- Cond RA-PrioSliceAI
    additionalRACH-ConfigList-r17       SetupRelease { AdditionalRACH-ConfigList-r17 }               OPTIONAL, -- Cond SpCellOnly2
    rsrp-ThresholdMsg3-r17              RSRP-Range                                                   OPTIONAL, -- Need R
    numberOfMsg3-RepetitionsList-r17    SEQUENCE (SIZE (4)) OF NumberOfMsg3-Repetitions-r17                  OPTIONAL,  -- Cond Msg3Rep
    mcs-Msg3-Repetitions-r17            SEQUENCE (SIZE (8)) OF INTEGER (0..31)                               OPTIONAL   -- Cond Msg3Rep
    ]],
    [[
    additionalRACH-perPCI-ToAddModList-r18   SEQUENCE (SIZE (1.. maxNrofAdditionalPRACHConfigs-r18)) OF  RACH-ConfigTwoTA-r18
                                                                                                             OPTIONAL, -- Cond 2TA-Only
    additionalRACH-perPCI-ToReleaseList-r18  SEQUENCE (SIZE (1.. maxNrofAdditionalPRACHConfigs-r18)) OF AdditionalPCIIndex-r17
                                                                                                             OPTIONAL,  -- Need N
    rsrp-ThresholdMsg1-RepetitionNum2-r18    RSRP-Range                                                      OPTIONAL,  -- Need R
    rsrp-ThresholdMsg1-RepetitionNum4-r18    RSRP-Range                                                      OPTIONAL,  -- Need R
    rsrp-ThresholdMsg1-RepetitionNum8-r18    RSRP-Range                                                      OPTIONAL,  -- Need R
    preambleTransMax-Msg1-Repetition-r18     ENUMERATED {n1, n2, n4, n6, n8, n10, n20, n50, n100, n200}      OPTIONAL   -- Cond Msg1Rep1
    ]]
}

AdditionalRACH-ConfigList-r17 ::=       SEQUENCE (SIZE(1..maxAdditionalRACH-r17)) OF AdditionalRACH-Config-r17

AdditionalRACH-Config-r17 ::=       SEQUENCE {
    rach-ConfigCommon-r17               RACH-ConfigCommon                                                   OPTIONAL,  -- Need R
    msgA-ConfigCommon-r17               MsgA-ConfigCommon-r16                                               OPTIONAL,  -- Need R
    ...
}

NumberOfMsg3-Repetitions-r17::=         ENUMERATED {n1, n2, n3, n4, n7, n8, n12, n16}

-- TAG-BWP-UPLINKCOMMON-STOP
-- ASN1STOP





–	BWP-UplinkDedicated
The IE BWP-UplinkDedicated is used to configure the dedicated (UE specific) parameters of an uplink BWP.
BWP-UplinkDedicated information element
-- ASN1START
-- TAG-BWP-UPLINKDEDICATED-START

BWP-UplinkDedicated ::=             SEQUENCE {
    pucch-Config                        SetupRelease { PUCCH-Config }                                           OPTIONAL,   -- Need M
    pusch-Config                        SetupRelease { PUSCH-Config }                                           OPTIONAL,   -- Need M
    configuredGrantConfig               SetupRelease { ConfiguredGrantConfig }                                  OPTIONAL,   -- Need M
    srs-Config                          SetupRelease { SRS-Config }                                             OPTIONAL,   -- Need M
    beamFailureRecoveryConfig           SetupRelease { BeamFailureRecoveryConfig }                              OPTIONAL,   -- Cond SpCellOnly
    ...,
    [[
    sl-PUCCH-Config-r16                 SetupRelease { PUCCH-Config }                                           OPTIONAL,   -- Need M
    cp-ExtensionC2-r16                  INTEGER (1..28)                                                         OPTIONAL,   -- Need R
    cp-ExtensionC3-r16                  INTEGER (1..28)                                                         OPTIONAL,   -- Need R
    useInterlacePUCCH-PUSCH-r16         ENUMERATED {enabled}                                                    OPTIONAL,   -- Need R
    pucch-ConfigurationList-r16         SetupRelease { PUCCH-ConfigurationList-r16 }                            OPTIONAL,   -- Need M
    lbt-FailureRecoveryConfig-r16       SetupRelease { LBT-FailureRecoveryConfig-r16 }                          OPTIONAL,   -- Need M
    configuredGrantConfigToAddModList-r16                 ConfiguredGrantConfigToAddModList-r16                 OPTIONAL,   -- Need N
    configuredGrantConfigToReleaseList-r16                ConfiguredGrantConfigToReleaseList-r16                OPTIONAL,   -- Need N
    configuredGrantConfigType2DeactivationStateList-r16   ConfiguredGrantConfigType2DeactivationStateList-r16   OPTIONAL    -- Need R
    ]],
    [[
    ul-TCI-StateList-r17                CHOICE {
        explicitlist                        SEQUENCE {
            ul-TCI-ToAddModList-r17             SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxUL-TCI-r17)) OF TCI-UL-State-r17          OPTIONAL,   -- Need N
            ul-TCI-ToReleaseList-r17            SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxUL-TCI-r17)) OF TCI-UL-StateId-r17        OPTIONAL    -- Need N
        },
        unifiedTCI-StateRef-r17         ServingCellAndBWP-Id-r17
    }                                                                                                           OPTIONAL,  -- Need R
    ul-powerControl-r17                Uplink-powerControlId-r17                                                OPTIONAL,  -- Cond NoTCI-PC
    pucch-ConfigurationListMulticast1-r17  SetupRelease { PUCCH-ConfigurationList-r16 }                         OPTIONAL,  -- Need M
    pucch-ConfigurationListMulticast2-r17  SetupRelease { PUCCH-ConfigurationList-r16 }                         OPTIONAL   -- Need M
    ]],
    [[
    pucch-ConfigMulticast1-r17          SetupRelease { PUCCH-Config }                                           OPTIONAL,  -- Need M
    pucch-ConfigMulticast2-r17          SetupRelease { PUCCH-Config }                                           OPTIONAL   -- Need M
    ]],
    [[
    pathlossReferenceRSToAddModList-r17     SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxNrofPathlossReferenceRSs-r17)) OF PathlossReferenceRS-r17
                                                                                                                OPTIONAL, -- Need N
    pathlossReferenceRSToReleaseList-r17    SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxNrofPathlossReferenceRSs-r17)) OF PathlossReferenceRS-Id-r17
                                                                                                                OPTIONAL  -- Need N
    ]]
}

ConfiguredGrantConfigToAddModList-r16    ::= SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxNrofConfiguredGrantConfig-r16)) OF ConfiguredGrantConfig

ConfiguredGrantConfigToReleaseList-r16   ::= SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxNrofConfiguredGrantConfig-r16)) OF ConfiguredGrantConfigIndex-r16

ConfiguredGrantConfigType2DeactivationState-r16 ::= SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxNrofConfiguredGrantConfig-r16)) OF ConfiguredGrantConfigIndex-r16

ConfiguredGrantConfigType2DeactivationStateList-r16  ::=
                             SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxNrofCG-Type2DeactivationState)) OF ConfiguredGrantConfigType2DeactivationState-r16

-- TAG-BWP-UPLINKDEDICATED-STOP
-- ASN1STOP





NOTE 1:	In case of RRCReconfiguration with reconfigurationWithSync, the UE performs a MAC reset, which involves releasing the PUCCH-CSI/SRS/SR configuration in accordance with clause 5.3.12 and TS 38.321 [3], clauses 5.12 and 5.2. Hence, for these parts of the dedicated radio resource configuration, delta signalling is not supported in the message when reconfigurationWithSync is included.

–	CandidateBeamRS
The IE CandidateBeamRS inlcudes candidate beams for beam failure recovery in case of beam failure detection. See also TS 38.321 [3], clause 5.17.
CandidateBeamRS information element
-- ASN1START
-- TAG-CANDIDATEBEAMRS-START


CandidateBeamRS-r16 ::=                SEQUENCE {
    candidateBeamConfig-r16                CHOICE {
        ssb-r16                                SSB-Index,
        csi-RS-r16                             NZP-CSI-RS-ResourceId
    },
    servingCellId                          ServCellIndex                                                            OPTIONAL  -- Need R
}

-- TAG-CANDIDATEBEAMRS-STOP
-- ASN1STOP



–	CandidateTCI-State
The IE CandidateTCI-State defines a TCI states configuration which associate one or more reference signal with a corresponding quasi-colocation (QCL) type.
CandidateTCI-State information element
-- ASN1START
-- TAG-CANDIDATETCI-STATE-START

CandidateTCI-State-r18 ::=           SEQUENCE {
    tci-StateId-r18                      TCI-StateId,
    qcl-Type1-r18                        LTM-QCL-Info-r18,
    qcl-Type2-r18                        LTM-QCL-Info-r18                                                    OPTIONAL,   -- Need R
    pathlossReferenceRS-Id-r18           PathlossReferenceRS-Id-r17                                          OPTIONAL,   -- Cond Joint
    tag-Id-ptr-r18                       ENUMERATED {n0,n1}                                                  OPTIONAL,   -- Cond 2TA
    ul-PowerControl-r18                  Uplink-powerControlId-r17                                           OPTIONAL,   -- Cond Joint2
    ...
}

LTM-QCL-Info-r18 ::=                 SEQUENCE {
    referenceSignal-r18                  CHOICE {
        ssb-Index                           SSB-Index,
        csi-RS-Index                        NZP-CSI-RS-ResourceId
    },
    qcl-Type-r18                         ENUMERATED {typeA, typeB, typeC, typeD},
    ...
}

-- TAG-CANDIDATETCI-STATE-STOP
-- ASN1STOP







–	CandidateTCI-UL-State
The IE CandidateTCI-UL-State defines an uplink TCI states configuration.
CandidateTCI-UL-State information element
-- ASN1START
-- TAG-CANDIDATETCI-UL-STATE-START

CandidateTCI-UL-State-r18 ::=           SEQUENCE {
    tci-UL-StateId-r18                      TCI-UL-StateId-r17,
    referenceSignal-r18                     CHOICE {
       ssb-Index                               SSB-Index,
       csi-RS-Index                            NZP-CSI-RS-ResourceId
    },
    pathlossReferenceRS-Id-r18              PathlossReferenceRS-Id-r17                                   OPTIONAL,   -- Need R
    tag-Id-ptr-r18                          ENUMERATED {n0,n1}                                           OPTIONAL,   -- Cond 2TA
    ul-PowerControl-r18                     Uplink-powerControlId-r17                                    OPTIONAL,   -- Cond separateTCI
    ...
}

-- TAG-CANDIDATETCI-UL-STATE-STOP
-- ASN1STOP





–	CellAccessRelatedInfo
The IE CellAccessRelatedInfo indicates cell access related information for this cell.
CellAccessRelatedInfo information element
-- ASN1START
-- TAG-CELLACCESSRELATEDINFO-START

CellAccessRelatedInfo   ::=         SEQUENCE {
    plmn-IdentityInfoList               PLMN-IdentityInfoList,
    cellReservedForOtherUse             ENUMERATED {true}             OPTIONAL,   -- Need R
    ...,
    [[
    cellReservedForFutureUse-r16        ENUMERATED {true}             OPTIONAL,   -- Need R
    npn-IdentityInfoList-r16            NPN-IdentityInfoList-r16      OPTIONAL    -- Need R
    ]],
    [[
    snpn-AccessInfoList-r17             SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxNPN-r16)) OF SNPN-AccessInfo-r17    OPTIONAL    -- Need R
    ]]
}

SNPN-AccessInfo-r17 ::=         SEQUENCE {
    extCH-Supported-r17                 ENUMERATED {true}             OPTIONAL,   -- Need R
    extCH-WithoutConfigAllowed-r17      ENUMERATED {true}             OPTIONAL,   -- Need R
    onboardingEnabled-r17               ENUMERATED {true}             OPTIONAL,   -- Need R
    imsEmergencySupportForSNPN-r17      ENUMERATED {true}             OPTIONAL    -- Need R
}

-- TAG-CELLACCESSRELATEDINFO-STOP
-- ASN1STOP





–	CellAccessRelatedInfo-EUTRA-5GC
The IE CellAccessRelatedInfo-EUTRA-5GC indicates cell access related information for an LTE cell connected to 5GC.
CellAccessRelatedInfo-EUTRA-5GC information element
-- ASN1START
-- TAG-CELLACCESSRELATEDINFOEUTRA-5GC-START

CellAccessRelatedInfo-EUTRA-5GC  ::=    SEQUENCE {
    plmn-IdentityList-eutra-5gc             PLMN-IdentityList-EUTRA-5GC,
    trackingAreaCode-eutra-5gc              TrackingAreaCode,
    ranac-5gc                               RAN-AreaCode                                OPTIONAL,
    cellIdentity-eutra-5gc                  CellIdentity-EUTRA-5GC
}

PLMN-IdentityList-EUTRA-5GC::=          SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxPLMN)) OF PLMN-Identity-EUTRA-5GC

PLMN-Identity-EUTRA-5GC ::=             CHOICE {
    plmn-Identity-EUTRA-5GC                 PLMN-Identity,
    plmn-index                              INTEGER (1..maxPLMN)
}

CellIdentity-EUTRA-5GC ::=              CHOICE {
    cellIdentity-EUTRA                      BIT STRING (SIZE (28)),
    cellId-index                            INTEGER (1..maxPLMN)
}

-- TAG-CELLACCESSRELATEDINFOEUTRA-5GC-STOP
-- ASN1STOP

–	CellAccessRelatedInfo-EUTRA-EPC
The IE CellAccessRelatedInfo-EUTRA-EPC indicates cell access related information for an LTE cell connected to EPC.
CellAccessRelatedInfo-EUTRA-EPC information element
-- ASN1START
-- TAG-CELLACCESSRELATEDINFOEUTRA-EPC-START

CellAccessRelatedInfo-EUTRA-EPC  ::=    SEQUENCE {
    plmn-IdentityList-eutra-epc             PLMN-IdentityList-EUTRA-EPC,
    trackingAreaCode-eutra-epc              BIT STRING (SIZE (16)),
    cellIdentity-eutra-epc                  BIT STRING (SIZE (28))
}

PLMN-IdentityList-EUTRA-EPC::=          SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxPLMN)) OF PLMN-Identity

-- TAG-CELLACCESSRELATEDINFOEUTRA-EPC-STOP
-- ASN1STOP

–	CellDTX-DRX-Config
The IE CellDTX-DRX-Config is used to configure cell DTX/DRX related parameters.
CellDTX-DRX-Config information element
-- ASN1START
-- TAG-CELLDTX-DRX-CONFIG-START

CellDTX-DRX-Config-r18 ::=             SEQUENCE {
    cellDTX-DRX-onDurationTimer-r18        CHOICE {
                                               subMilliSeconds INTEGER (1..31),
                                               milliSeconds    ENUMERATED {
                                                ms1, ms2, ms3, ms4, ms5, ms6, ms8, ms10, ms20, ms30, ms40, ms50, ms60,
                                                ms80, ms100, ms200, ms300, ms400, ms500, ms600, ms800, ms1000, ms1200,
                                                ms1600, spare8, spare7, spare6, spare5, spare4, spare3, spare2, spare1 }
    },
    cellDTX-DRX-CycleStartOffset-r18       CHOICE {
        ms10                                   INTEGER(0..9),
        ms20                                   INTEGER(0..19),
        ms32                                   INTEGER(0..31),
        ms40                                   INTEGER(0..39),
        ms60                                   INTEGER(0..59),
        ms64                                   INTEGER(0..63),
        ms70                                   INTEGER(0..69),
        ms80                                   INTEGER(0..79),
        ms128                                  INTEGER(0..127),
        ms160                                  INTEGER(0..159),
        ms256                                  INTEGER(0..255),
        ms320                                  INTEGER(0..319),
        ms512                                  INTEGER(0..511),
        ms640                                  INTEGER(0..639),
        ms1024                                 INTEGER(0..1023),
        ms1280                                 INTEGER(0..1279),
        ms2048                                 INTEGER(0..2047),
        ms2560                                 INTEGER(0..2559),
        ms5120                                 INTEGER(0..5119),
        ms10240                                INTEGER(0..10239)
    },
    cellDTX-DRX-SlotOffset-r18                 INTEGER (0..31),
    cellDTX-DRX-ConfigType-r18                 ENUMERATED {dtx, drx, dtxdrx},
    cellDTX-DRX-ActivationStatus-r18           ENUMERATED {activated, deactivated}           OPTIONAL   -- Need N
}

-- TAG-CELLDTX-DRX-CONFIG-STOP
-- ASN1STOP



–	CellGroupConfig
The CellGroupConfig IE is used to configure a master cell group (MCG) or secondary cell group (SCG). A cell group comprises of one MAC entity, a set of logical channels with associated RLC entities and of a primary cell (SpCell) and one or more secondary cells (SCells). For an NCR-MT, the CellGroupConfig IE is also used to provide the configuration of side control information for the NCR-Fwd access link.
CellGroupConfig information element
-- ASN1START
-- TAG-CELLGROUPCONFIG-START

-- Configuration of one Cell-Group:
CellGroupConfig ::=                        SEQUENCE {
    cellGroupId                                CellGroupId,
    rlc-BearerToAddModList                     SEQUENCE (SIZE(1..maxLC-ID)) OF RLC-BearerConfig                        OPTIONAL,   -- Need N
    rlc-BearerToReleaseList                    SEQUENCE (SIZE(1..maxLC-ID)) OF LogicalChannelIdentity                  OPTIONAL,   -- Need N
    mac-CellGroupConfig                        MAC-CellGroupConfig                                                     OPTIONAL,   -- Need M
    physicalCellGroupConfig                    PhysicalCellGroupConfig                                                 OPTIONAL,   -- Need M
    spCellConfig                               SpCellConfig                                                            OPTIONAL,   -- Need M
    sCellToAddModList                          SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxNrofSCells)) OF SCellConfig                       OPTIONAL,   -- Need N
    sCellToReleaseList                         SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxNrofSCells)) OF SCellIndex                        OPTIONAL,   -- Need N
    ...,
    [[
    reportUplinkTxDirectCurrent                ENUMERATED {true}                                                   OPTIONAL    -- Cond BWP-Reconfig
    ]],
    [[
    bap-Address-r16                            BIT STRING (SIZE (10))                                                  OPTIONAL,   -- Need M
    bh-RLC-ChannelToAddModList-r16             SEQUENCE (SIZE(1..maxBH-RLC-ChannelID-r16)) OF BH-RLC-ChannelConfig-r16 OPTIONAL,   -- Need N
    bh-RLC-ChannelToReleaseList-r16            SEQUENCE (SIZE(1..maxBH-RLC-ChannelID-r16)) OF BH-RLC-ChannelID-r16     OPTIONAL,   -- Need N
    f1c-TransferPath-r16                       ENUMERATED {lte, nr, both}                                              OPTIONAL,   -- Need M
    simultaneousTCI-UpdateList1-r16            SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxNrofServingCellsTCI-r16)) OF ServCellIndex        OPTIONAL,   -- Need R
    simultaneousTCI-UpdateList2-r16            SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxNrofServingCellsTCI-r16)) OF ServCellIndex        OPTIONAL,   -- Need R
    simultaneousSpatial-UpdatedList1-r16       SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxNrofServingCellsTCI-r16)) OF ServCellIndex        OPTIONAL,   -- Need R
    simultaneousSpatial-UpdatedList2-r16       SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxNrofServingCellsTCI-r16)) OF ServCellIndex        OPTIONAL,   -- Need R
    uplinkTxSwitchingOption-r16                ENUMERATED {switchedUL, dualUL}                                         OPTIONAL,   -- Need R
    uplinkTxSwitchingPowerBoosting-r16         ENUMERATED {enabled}                                                    OPTIONAL    -- Need R
    ]],
    [[
    reportUplinkTxDirectCurrentTwoCarrier-r16  ENUMERATED {true}                                                       OPTIONAL    -- Need N
    ]],
    [[
    f1c-TransferPathNRDC-r17                   ENUMERATED {mcg, scg, both}                                             OPTIONAL,   -- Need M
    uplinkTxSwitching-2T-Mode-r17              ENUMERATED {enabled}                                                    OPTIONAL,   -- Cond 2Tx
    uplinkTxSwitching-DualUL-TxState-r17       ENUMERATED {oneT, twoT}                                                 OPTIONAL,   -- Cond 2Tx
    uu-RelayRLC-ChannelToAddModList-r17        SEQUENCE (SIZE(1..maxUu-RelayRLC-ChannelID-r17)) OF Uu-RelayRLC-ChannelConfig-r17
                                                                                                                       OPTIONAL,   -- Need N
    uu-RelayRLC-ChannelToReleaseList-r17       SEQUENCE (SIZE(1..maxUu-RelayRLC-ChannelID-r17)) OF Uu-RelayRLC-ChannelID-r17
                                                                                                                       OPTIONAL,   -- Need N
    simultaneousU-TCI-UpdateList1-r17          SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxNrofServingCellsTCI-r16)) OF ServCellIndex        OPTIONAL,   -- Need R
    simultaneousU-TCI-UpdateList2-r17          SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxNrofServingCellsTCI-r16)) OF ServCellIndex        OPTIONAL,   -- Need R
    simultaneousU-TCI-UpdateList3-r17          SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxNrofServingCellsTCI-r16)) OF ServCellIndex        OPTIONAL,   -- Need R
    simultaneousU-TCI-UpdateList4-r17          SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxNrofServingCellsTCI-r16)) OF ServCellIndex        OPTIONAL,   -- Need R
    rlc-BearerToReleaseListExt-r17             SEQUENCE (SIZE(1..maxLC-ID)) OF LogicalChannelIdentityExt-r17           OPTIONAL,   -- Need N
    iab-ResourceConfigToAddModList-r17  SEQUENCE (SIZE(1..maxNrofIABResourceConfig-r17)) OF IAB-ResourceConfig-r17   OPTIONAL, -- Need N
    iab-ResourceConfigToReleaseList-r17 SEQUENCE (SIZE(1..maxNrofIABResourceConfig-r17)) OF IAB-ResourceConfigID-r17 OPTIONAL  -- Need N
    ]],
    [[
    reportUplinkTxDirectCurrentMoreCarrier-r17 ReportUplinkTxDirectCurrentMoreCarrier-r17                            OPTIONAL  -- Need N
    ]],
    [[
    prioSCellPRACH-OverSP-PeriodicSRS-r17      ENUMERATED {enabled}                                                  OPTIONAL  -- Need R
    ]],
    [[
    ncr-FwdConfig-r18                          SetupRelease { NCR-FwdConfig-r18 }                                 OPTIONAL,  -- Cond NCR
    autonomousDenialParameters-r18             SetupRelease {AutonomousDenialParameters-r18}                      OPTIONAL,   -- Need M
    nonCollocatedTypeMRDC-r18                  ENUMERATED { true }                                                OPTIONAL,   -- Need R
    nonCollocatedTypeNR-CA-r18                 ENUMERATED { true }                                                OPTIONAL,   -- Need R
    uplinkTxSwitchingMoreBands-r18             SetupRelease { UplinkTxSwitchingMoreBands-r18 }                    OPTIONAL    -- Need M
    ]]
}

-- Serving cell specific MAC and PHY parameters for a SpCell:
SpCellConfig ::=                        SEQUENCE {
    servCellIndex                       ServCellIndex                                               OPTIONAL,   -- Cond SCG
    reconfigurationWithSync             ReconfigurationWithSync                                     OPTIONAL,   -- Cond ReconfWithSync
    rlf-TimersAndConstants              SetupRelease { RLF-TimersAndConstants }                     OPTIONAL,   -- Need M
    rlmInSyncOutOfSyncThreshold         ENUMERATED {n1}                                             OPTIONAL,   -- Need S
    spCellConfigDedicated               ServingCellConfig                                           OPTIONAL,   -- Need M
    ...,
    [[
    lowMobilityEvaluationConnected-r17  SEQUENCE {
        s-SearchDeltaP-Connected-r17        ENUMERATED {dB3, dB6, dB9, dB12, dB15, spare3, spare2, spare1},
        t-SearchDeltaP-Connected-r17        ENUMERATED {s5, s10, s20, s30, s60, s120, s180, s240, s300, spare7, spare6, spare5,
                                                        spare4, spare3, spare2, spare1}
    }                                                                                               OPTIONAL,   -- Need R
    goodServingCellEvaluationRLM-r17    GoodServingCellEvaluation-r17                               OPTIONAL,   -- Need R
    goodServingCellEvaluationBFD-r17    GoodServingCellEvaluation-r17                               OPTIONAL,   -- Need R
    deactivatedSCG-Config-r17           SetupRelease { DeactivatedSCG-Config-r17 }                  OPTIONAL    -- Cond SCG-Opt
    ]]
}

ReconfigurationWithSync ::=         SEQUENCE {
    spCellConfigCommon                  ServingCellConfigCommon                                     OPTIONAL,   -- Need M
    newUE-Identity                      RNTI-Value,
    t304                                ENUMERATED {ms50, ms100, ms150, ms200, ms500, ms1000, ms2000, ms10000},
    rach-ConfigDedicated                CHOICE {
        uplink                              RACH-ConfigDedicated,
        supplementaryUplink                 RACH-ConfigDedicated
    }                                                                                               OPTIONAL,   -- Need N
    ...,
    [[
    smtc                                SSB-MTC                                                     OPTIONAL    -- Need S
    ]],
    [[
    daps-UplinkPowerConfig-r16      DAPS-UplinkPowerConfig-r16                                      OPTIONAL    -- Need N
    ]],
    [[
    sl-PathSwitchConfig-r17         SL-PathSwitchConfig-r17                                         OPTIONAL    -- Cond DirectToIndirect-PathSwitch
    ]],
    [[
    rach-LessHO-r18                 RACH-LessHO-r18                                                 OPTIONAL,   -- Need N
    sl-IndirectPathMaintain-r18     ENUMERATED{true}                                                OPTIONAL     -- Cond MP
    ]]
}

DAPS-UplinkPowerConfig-r16 ::=      SEQUENCE {
    p-DAPS-Source-r16                   P-Max,
    p-DAPS-Target-r16                   P-Max,
    uplinkPowerSharingDAPS-Mode-r16     ENUMERATED {semi-static-mode1, semi-static-mode2, dynamic }
}

SCellConfig ::=                     SEQUENCE {
    sCellIndex                          SCellIndex,
    sCellConfigCommon                   ServingCellConfigCommon                                     OPTIONAL,   -- Cond SCellAdd
    sCellConfigDedicated                ServingCellConfig                                           OPTIONAL,   -- Cond SCellAddMod
    ...,
    [[
    smtc                                SSB-MTC                                                     OPTIONAL    -- Need S
    ]],
    [[
    sCellState-r16                  ENUMERATED {activated}                                          OPTIONAL,   -- Cond SCellAddSync
    secondaryDRX-GroupConfig-r16    ENUMERATED {true}                                               OPTIONAL    -- Need S
    ]],
    [[
    preConfGapStatus-r17             BIT STRING (SIZE (maxNrofGapId-r17))                           OPTIONAL,   -- Cond PreConfigMG
    goodServingCellEvaluationBFD-r17 GoodServingCellEvaluation-r17                                  OPTIONAL,   -- Need R
    sCellSIB20-r17                   SetupRelease { SCellSIB20-r17 }                                OPTIONAL    -- Need M
    ]],
    [[
    plmn-IdentityInfoList-r17       SetupRelease {PLMN-IdentityInfoList}                            OPTIONAL,   -- Cond SCellSIB20-Opt
    npn-IdentityInfoList-r17        SetupRelease {NPN-IdentityInfoList-r16}                         OPTIONAL    -- Cond SCellSIB20-Opt
    ]]
}

SCellSIB20-r17 ::= OCTET STRING (CONTAINING SystemInformation)

DeactivatedSCG-Config-r17 ::=       SEQUENCE {
    bfd-and-RLM-r17                     BOOLEAN,
    ...
}

GoodServingCellEvaluation-r17 ::=       SEQUENCE {
    offset-r17                              ENUMERATED {db2, db4, db6, db8}                         OPTIONAL   -- Need S
}

SL-PathSwitchConfig-r17 ::=         SEQUENCE {
    targetRelayUE-Identity-r17          SL-SourceIdentity-r17,
    t420-r17                            ENUMERATED {ms50, ms100, ms150, ms200, ms500, ms1000, ms2000, ms10000},
    ...
}

IAB-ResourceConfig-r17 ::=          SEQUENCE {
    iab-ResourceConfigID-r17            IAB-ResourceConfigID-r17,
    slotList-r17                        SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..5120)) OF INTEGER (0..5119)                           OPTIONAL,    -- Need M
    periodicitySlotList-r17             ENUMERATED {ms0p5, ms0p625, ms1, ms1p25, ms2, ms2p5, ms5, ms10, ms20, ms40, ms80, ms160}     OPTIONAL,    -- Need M
    slotListSubcarrierSpacing-r17       SubcarrierSpacing                                                        OPTIONAL,    -- Need M
    ...
}
IAB-ResourceConfigID-r17 ::=        INTEGER(0..maxNrofIABResourceConfig-1-r17)

ReportUplinkTxDirectCurrentMoreCarrier-r17 ::= SEQUENCE (SIZE(1.. maxSimultaneousBands)) OF IntraBandCC-CombinationReqList-r17

IntraBandCC-CombinationReqList-r17::=   SEQUENCE {
    servCellIndexList-r17                   SEQUENCE (SIZE(1.. maxNrofServingCells)) OF ServCellIndex,
    cc-CombinationList-r17                  SEQUENCE (SIZE(1.. maxNrofReqComDC-Location-r17)) OF IntraBandCC-Combination-r17
}

IntraBandCC-Combination-r17::=      SEQUENCE (SIZE(1.. maxNrofServingCells)) OF CC-State-r17

CC-State-r17::=                     SEQUENCE {
    dlCarrier-r17                       CarrierState-r17                             OPTIONAL, -- Need N
    ulCarrier-r17                       CarrierState-r17                             OPTIONAL  -- Need N
}

CarrierState-r17::=                 CHOICE {
    deActivated-r17                     NULL,
    activeBWP-r17                       INTEGER (0..maxNrofBWPs)
}

AutonomousDenialParameters-r18 ::=  SEQUENCE {
    autonomousDenialSlots-r18           ENUMERATED {n2, n5, n10, n15, n20, n30, spare2, spare1},
    autonomousDenialValidity-r18        ENUMERATED {n200, n500, n1000, n2000}
}

RACH-LessHO-r18 ::=                 SEQUENCE {
    targetNTA-r18                       ENUMERATED {zero, source}                                   OPTIONAL,   -- Need N
    beamIndication-r18                  CHOICE {
        tci-StateID-r18                     TCI-StateId,
        ssb-Index-r18                       SSB-Index
    }                                                                                               OPTIONAL,   -- Need N
     ...
}

UplinkTxSwitchingMoreBands-r18::=              SEQUENCE {
    uplinkTxSwitchingBandList-r18                  SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxSimultaneousBands)) OF FreqBandIndicatorNR OPTIONAL,  -- Need M
    uplinkTxSwitchingBandPairList-r18              UplinkTxSwitchingBandPairList-r18                OPTIONAL,   -- Need M
    uplinkTxSwitchingAssociatedBandDualUL-List-r18 UplinkTxSwitchingAssociatedBandDualUL-List-r18   OPTIONAL,   -- Need M
    ...
}

UplinkTxSwitchingBandPairList-r18::=      SEQUENCE (SIZE (1.. maxULTxSwitchingBandPairs)) OF UplinkTxSwitchingBandPairConfig-r18

UplinkTxSwitchingBandPairConfig-r18::=    SEQUENCE {
    bandInfoUL1-r18                           UplinkTxSwitchingBandIndex-r18,
    bandInfoUL2-r18                           UplinkTxSwitchingBandIndex-r18,
    switchingOptionConfigForBandPair-r18      ENUMERATED {switchedUL, dualUL},
    switching2T-Mode-r18                      ENUMERATED {enabled}                                             OPTIONAL,   -- Need S
    switchingPeriodConfigForBandPair-r18      ENUMERATED {n35us, n140us}                                       OPTIONAL,   -- Need S
    ...
}

UplinkTxSwitchingAssociatedBandDualUL-List-r18::= SEQUENCE (SIZE (0..maxSimultaneousBands)) OF UplinkTxSwitchingAssociatedBandDualUL-r18

UplinkTxSwitchingAssociatedBandDualUL-r18::=  SEQUENCE {
    transmitBand-r18                              UplinkTxSwitchingBandIndex-r18,
    associatedBand-r18                            UplinkTxSwitchingBandIndex-r18
}

UplinkTxSwitchingBandIndex-r18::=  INTEGER (1..maxSimultaneousBands)

-- TAG-CELLGROUPCONFIG-STOP
-- ASN1STOP

































NOTE:	In case of change of AS security key derived from S-KgNB/S-KeNB, if reconfigurationWithSync is not included in the masterCellGroup, the network releases all existing MCG RLC bearers associated with a radio bearer with keyToUse set to secondary. In case of change of AS security key derived from KgNB/KeNB, if reconfigurationWithSync is not included in the secondaryCellGroup, the network releases all existing SCG RLC bearers associated with a radio bearer with keyToUse set to master.

–	CellGroupId
The IE CellGroupId is used to identify a cell group. Value 0 identifies the master cell group. Other values identify secondary cell groups. In this version of the specification only values 0 and 1 are supported.
CellGroupId information element
-- ASN1START
-- TAG-CELLGROUPID-START

CellGroupId ::=                             INTEGER (0.. maxSecondaryCellGroups)

-- TAG-CELLGROUPID-STOP
-- ASN1STOP

–	CellIdentity
The IE CellIdentity is used to unambiguously identify a cell within a PLMN/SNPN.
CellIdentity information element
-- ASN1START
-- TAG-CELLIDENTITY-START

CellIdentity ::=                         BIT STRING (SIZE (36))

-- TAG-CELLIDENTITY-STOP
-- ASN1STOP

–	CellReselectionPriority
The IE CellReselectionPriority concerns the absolute priority of the concerned carrier frequency, as used by the cell reselection procedure. Corresponds to parameter "priority" in TS 38.304 [20]. Value 0 means lowest priority. The UE behaviour for the case the field is absent, if applicable, is specified in TS 38.304 [20].
CellReselectionPriority information element
-- ASN1START
-- TAG-CELLRESELECTIONPRIORITY-START

CellReselectionPriority ::=             INTEGER (0..7)

-- TAG-CELLRESELECTIONPRIORITY-STOP
-- ASN1STOP

–	CellReselectionSubPriority
The IE CellReselectionSubPriority indicates a fractional value to be added to the value of cellReselectionPriority to obtain the absolute priority of the concerned carrier frequency for E-UTRA and NR. Value oDot2 corresponds to 0.2, value oDot4 corresponds to 0.4 and so on.
CellReselectionSubPriority information element
-- ASN1START
-- TAG-CELLRESELECTIONSUBPRIORITY-START

CellReselectionSubPriority ::=          ENUMERATED {oDot2, oDot4, oDot6, oDot8}

-- TAG-CELLRESELECTIONSUBPRIORITY-STOP
-- ASN1STOP

–	CFR-ConfigMulticast
The IE CFR-ConfigMulticast indicates UE specific common frequency resource configuration for multicast for one dedicated BWP.
CFR-ConfigMulticast information element
-- ASN1START
-- TAG-CFR-CONFIGMULTICAST-START

CFR-ConfigMulticast-r17::= SEQUENCE {
    locationAndBandwidthMulticast-r17              INTEGER (0..37949)                       OPTIONAL,    -- Need S
    pdcch-ConfigMulticast-r17                      PDCCH-Config                             OPTIONAL,    -- Need M
    pdsch-ConfigMulticast-r17                      PDSCH-Config                             OPTIONAL,    -- Need M
    sps-ConfigMulticastToAddModList-r17            SPS-ConfigMulticastToAddModList-r17      OPTIONAL,    -- Need N
    sps-ConfigMulticastToReleaseList-r17           SPS-ConfigMulticastToReleaseList-r17     OPTIONAL     -- Need N
}

SPS-ConfigMulticastToAddModList-r17 ::=	SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..8)) OF SPS-Config

SPS-ConfigMulticastToReleaseList-r17 ::= SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..8)) OF SPS-ConfigIndex-r16

-- TAG-CFR-CONFIGMULTICAST-STOP
-- ASN1STOP



–	CGI-InfoEUTRA
The IE CGI-InfoEUTRA indicates EUTRA cell access related information, which is reported by the UE as part of E-UTRA report CGI procedure.
CGI-InfoEUTRA information element
-- ASN1START
-- TAG-CGI-INFOEUTRA-START

CGI-InfoEUTRA ::=                        SEQUENCE {
    cgi-info-EPC                            SEQUENCE {
            cgi-info-EPC-legacy                 CellAccessRelatedInfo-EUTRA-EPC,
            cgi-info-EPC-list                   SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxPLMN)) OF CellAccessRelatedInfo-EUTRA-EPC             OPTIONAL
    }                                                                                                                       OPTIONAL,
    cgi-info-5GC                            SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxPLMN)) OF CellAccessRelatedInfo-EUTRA-5GC             OPTIONAL,
    freqBandIndicator                       FreqBandIndicatorEUTRA,
    multiBandInfoList                       MultiBandInfoListEUTRA                                                      OPTIONAL,
    freqBandIndicatorPriority               ENUMERATED {true}                                                           OPTIONAL
}

-- TAG-CGI-INFOEUTRA-STOP
-- ASN1STOP

–	CGI-InfoEUTRALogging
The IE CGI-InfoEUTRALogging indicates EUTRA cell related information, which is reported by the UE as part of RLF reporting procedure.
CGI-InfoEUTRALogging information element
-- ASN1START
-- TAG-CGI-INFOEUTRALOGGING-START

CGI-InfoEUTRALogging ::=         SEQUENCE {
    plmn-Identity-eutra-5gc          PLMN-Identity                                          OPTIONAL,
    trackingAreaCode-eutra-5gc       TrackingAreaCode                                       OPTIONAL,
    cellIdentity-eutra-5gc           BIT STRING (SIZE (28))                                 OPTIONAL,
    plmn-Identity-eutra-epc          PLMN-Identity                                          OPTIONAL,
    trackingAreaCode-eutra-epc       BIT STRING (SIZE (16))                                 OPTIONAL,
    cellIdentity-eutra-epc           BIT STRING (SIZE (28))                                 OPTIONAL
}

-- TAG-CGI-INFOEUTRALOGGING-STOP
-- ASN1STOP



–	CGI-InfoNR
The IE CGI-InfoNR indicates cell access related information, which is reported by the UE as part of report CGI procedure.
CGI-InfoNR information element
-- ASN1START
-- TAG-CGI-INFO-NR-START

CGI-InfoNR ::=                    SEQUENCE {
    plmn-IdentityInfoList               PLMN-IdentityInfoList               OPTIONAL,
    frequencyBandList                   MultiFrequencyBandListNR            OPTIONAL,
    noSIB1                              SEQUENCE {
        ssb-SubcarrierOffset                INTEGER (0..15),
        pdcch-ConfigSIB1                    PDCCH-ConfigSIB1
    }                                                                       OPTIONAL,
    ...,
    [[
    npn-IdentityInfoList-r16            NPN-IdentityInfoList-r16            OPTIONAL
    ]],
    [[
    cellReservedForOtherUse-r16         ENUMERATED {true}                   OPTIONAL
    ]]
}

-- TAG-CGI-INFO-NR-STOP
-- ASN1STOP



–	CGI-Info-Logging
The IE CGI-Info-Logging indicates the NR Cell Global Identifier (NCGI) for logging purposes (e.g. RLF report), the globally unique identity, and the TAC information of a cell in NR.
CGI-Info-Logging information element
-- ASN1START
-- TAG-CGI-INFO-LOGGING-START

CGI-Info-Logging-r16 ::=     SEQUENCE {
    plmn-Identity-r16                    PLMN-Identity,
    cellIdentity-r16                     CellIdentity,
    trackingAreaCode-r16                 TrackingAreaCode               OPTIONAL
}

-- TAG-CGI-INFO-LOGGING-STOP
-- ASN1STOP



–	CLI-RSSI-Range
The IE CLI-RSSI-Range specifies the value range used in CLI-RSSI measurements and thresholds. The integer value for CLI-RSSI measurements is according to Table 10.1.22.2.2-1 in TS 38.133 [14].
CLI-RSSI-Range information element
-- ASN1START
-- TAG-CLI-RSSI-RANGE-START

CLI-RSSI-Range-r16 ::=                      INTEGER(0..76)

-- TAG-CLI-RSSI-RANGE-STOP
-- ASN1STOP

–	ClockQualityMetrics
The IE ClockQualityMetrics is used to configure RAN timing synchronisation status information as specified in TS 38.473 [36]
ClockQualityMetrics information element
-- ASN1START
-- TAG-CLOCKQUALITYMETRICS-START

ClockQualityMetrics-r18 ::= SEQUENCE {
    synchronisationState-r18        ENUMERATED {locked, holdover, freerun, spare1}                        OPTIONAL,   -- Need N
    tracebilityToUTC-r18            BOOLEAN                                                               OPTIONAL,   -- Need N
    tracebilityToGNSS-r18           BOOLEAN                                                               OPTIONAL,   -- Need N
    clockFrequencyStability-r18     BIT STRING (SIZE(16))                                                 OPTIONAL,   -- Need N
    clockAccuracy-r18               CHOICE {
                                        value INTEGER (1..40000000),
                                        index INTEGER (32..47)
    }                                                                                                     OPTIONAL,   -- Need N
    parentTimeSource-r18            ENUMERATED {syncE, pTP, gNSS,atomicClock, terrestialRadio,
                                                serialTimeCode, nTP, handset, other, spare7,
                                                spare6, spare5, spare4, spare3, spare2, spare1}           OPTIONAL,   -- Need N
    ...
}

-- TAG-CLOCKQUALITYMETRICS-STOP
-- ASN1STOP

–	CodebookConfig
The IE CodebookConfig is used to configure codebooks of Type-I and Type-II (see TS 38.214 [19], clause 5.2.2.2)
CodebookConfig information element
-- ASN1START
-- TAG-CODEBOOKCONFIG-START

CodebookConfig ::=                                  SEQUENCE {
    codebookType                                        CHOICE {
        type1                                               SEQUENCE {
            subType                                             CHOICE {
                typeI-SinglePanel                                   SEQUENCE {
                    nrOfAntennaPorts                                    CHOICE {
                        two                                                 SEQUENCE {
                            twoTX-CodebookSubsetRestriction                     BIT STRING (SIZE (6))
                        },
                        moreThanTwo                                         SEQUENCE {
                            n1-n2                                               CHOICE {
                                two-one-TypeI-SinglePanel-Restriction               BIT STRING (SIZE (8)),
                                two-two-TypeI-SinglePanel-Restriction               BIT STRING (SIZE (64)),
                                four-one-TypeI-SinglePanel-Restriction              BIT STRING (SIZE (16)),
                                three-two-TypeI-SinglePanel-Restriction             BIT STRING (SIZE (96)),
                                six-one-TypeI-SinglePanel-Restriction               BIT STRING (SIZE (24)),
                                four-two-TypeI-SinglePanel-Restriction              BIT STRING (SIZE (128)),
                                eight-one-TypeI-SinglePanel-Restriction             BIT STRING (SIZE (32)),
                                four-three-TypeI-SinglePanel-Restriction            BIT STRING (SIZE (192)),
                                six-two-TypeI-SinglePanel-Restriction               BIT STRING (SIZE (192)),
                                twelve-one-TypeI-SinglePanel-Restriction            BIT STRING (SIZE (48)),
                                four-four-TypeI-SinglePanel-Restriction             BIT STRING (SIZE (256)),
                                eight-two-TypeI-SinglePanel-Restriction             BIT STRING (SIZE (256)),
                                sixteen-one-TypeI-SinglePanel-Restriction           BIT STRING (SIZE (64))
                            },
                            typeI-SinglePanel-codebookSubsetRestriction-i2      BIT STRING (SIZE (16))        OPTIONAL    -- Need R
                        }
                    },
                    typeI-SinglePanel-ri-Restriction                    BIT STRING (SIZE (8))
                },
                typeI-MultiPanel                                    SEQUENCE {
                    ng-n1-n2                                                CHOICE {
                        two-two-one-TypeI-MultiPanel-Restriction                BIT STRING (SIZE (8)),
                        two-four-one-TypeI-MultiPanel-Restriction               BIT STRING (SIZE (16)),
                        four-two-one-TypeI-MultiPanel-Restriction               BIT STRING (SIZE (8)),
                        two-two-two-TypeI-MultiPanel-Restriction                BIT STRING (SIZE (64)),
                        two-eight-one-TypeI-MultiPanel-Restriction              BIT STRING (SIZE (32)),
                        four-four-one-TypeI-MultiPanel-Restriction              BIT STRING (SIZE (16)),
                        two-four-two-TypeI-MultiPanel-Restriction               BIT STRING (SIZE (128)),
                        four-two-two-TypeI-MultiPanel-Restriction               BIT STRING (SIZE (64))
                    },
                    ri-Restriction                          BIT STRING (SIZE (4))
                }
            },
            codebookMode                                        INTEGER (1..2)

        },
        type2                                   SEQUENCE {
            subType                                 CHOICE {
                typeII                                  SEQUENCE {
                    n1-n2-codebookSubsetRestriction         CHOICE {
                        two-one                                 BIT STRING (SIZE (16)),
                        two-two                                 BIT STRING (SIZE (43)),
                        four-one                                BIT STRING (SIZE (32)),
                        three-two                               BIT STRING (SIZE (59)),
                        six-one                                 BIT STRING (SIZE (48)),
                        four-two                                BIT STRING (SIZE (75)),
                        eight-one                               BIT STRING (SIZE (64)),
                        four-three                              BIT STRING (SIZE (107)),
                        six-two                                 BIT STRING (SIZE (107)),
                        twelve-one                              BIT STRING (SIZE (96)),
                        four-four                               BIT STRING (SIZE (139)),
                        eight-two                               BIT STRING (SIZE (139)),
                        sixteen-one                             BIT STRING (SIZE (128))
                    },
                    typeII-RI-Restriction                   BIT STRING (SIZE (2))
                },
                typeII-PortSelection                    SEQUENCE {
                    portSelectionSamplingSize               ENUMERATED {n1, n2, n3, n4}                   OPTIONAL,       -- Need R
                    typeII-PortSelectionRI-Restriction      BIT STRING (SIZE (2))
                }
            },
            phaseAlphabetSize                       ENUMERATED {n4, n8},
            subbandAmplitude                        BOOLEAN,
            numberOfBeams                           ENUMERATED {two, three, four}
        }
    }
}

CodebookConfig-r16  ::=                SEQUENCE  {
    codebookType                           CHOICE {
        type2                                  SEQUENCE {
            subType                                CHOICE {
                typeII-r16                             SEQUENCE  {
                    n1-n2-codebookSubsetRestriction-r16    CHOICE {
                        two-one                                BIT STRING (SIZE (16)),
                        two-two                                BIT STRING (SIZE (43)),
                        four-one                               BIT STRING (SIZE (32)),
                        three-two                              BIT STRING (SIZE (59)),
                        six-one                                BIT STRING (SIZE (48)),
                        four-two                               BIT STRING (SIZE (75)),
                        eight-one                              BIT STRING (SIZE (64)),
                        four-three                             BIT STRING (SIZE (107)),
                        six-two                                BIT STRING (SIZE (107)),
                        twelve-one                             BIT STRING (SIZE (96)),
                        four-four                              BIT STRING (SIZE (139)),
                        eight-two                              BIT STRING (SIZE (139)),
                        sixteen-one                            BIT STRING (SIZE (128))
                    },
                    typeII-RI-Restriction-r16              BIT STRING (SIZE(4))
                },
                typeII-PortSelection-r16  SEQUENCE {
                    portSelectionSamplingSize-r16          ENUMERATED {n1, n2, n3, n4},
                    typeII-PortSelectionRI-Restriction-r16 BIT STRING (SIZE (4))
                }
            },
        numberOfPMI-SubbandsPerCQI-Subband-r16 INTEGER (1..2),
        paramCombination-r16                   INTEGER (1..8)
        }
    }
}

CodebookConfig-r17  ::=               SEQUENCE  {
    codebookType                          CHOICE   {
        type1                                 SEQUENCE  {
            typeI-SinglePanel-Group1-r17          SEQUENCE {
                nrOfAntennaPorts                      CHOICE {
                    two                                   SEQUENCE {
                        twoTX-CodebookSubsetRestriction1-r17  BIT STRING (SIZE (6))
                    },
                    moreThanTwo                            SEQUENCE {
                        n1-n2                                        CHOICE {
                            two-one-TypeI-SinglePanel-Restriction1-r17       BIT STRING (SIZE (8)),
                            two-two-TypeI-SinglePanel-Restriction1-r17       BIT STRING (SIZE (64)),
                            four-one-TypeI-SinglePanel-Restriction1-r17      BIT STRING (SIZE (16)),
                            three-two-TypeI-SinglePanel-Restriction1-r17     BIT STRING (SIZE (96)),
                            six-one-TypeI-SinglePanel-Restriction1-r17       BIT STRING (SIZE (24)),
                            four-two-TypeI-SinglePanel-Restriction1-r17      BIT STRING (SIZE (128)),
                            eight-one-TypeI-SinglePanel-Restriction1-r17     BIT STRING (SIZE (32)),
                            four-three-TypeI-SinglePanel-Restriction1-r17    BIT STRING (SIZE (192)),
                            six-two-TypeI-SinglePanel-Restriction1-r17       BIT STRING (SIZE (192)),
                            twelve-one-TypeI-SinglePanel-Restriction1-r17    BIT STRING (SIZE (48)),
                            four-four-TypeI-SinglePanel-Restriction1-r17     BIT STRING (SIZE (256)),
                            eight-two-TypeI-SinglePanel-Restriction1-r17     BIT STRING (SIZE (256)),
                            sixteen-one-TypeI-SinglePanel-Restriction1-r17   BIT STRING (SIZE (64))
                        }
                    }
                }
            }                                                                                       OPTIONAL,  -- Need R
            typeI-SinglePanel-Group2-r17           SEQUENCE {
                nrOfAntennaPorts                       CHOICE {
                    two                                    SEQUENCE {
                        twoTX-CodebookSubsetRestriction2-r17   BIT STRING (SIZE (6))
                    },
                    moreThanTwo                            SEQUENCE {
                        n1-n2                                        CHOICE {
                            two-one-TypeI-SinglePanel-Restriction2-r17       BIT STRING (SIZE (8)),
                            two-two-TypeI-SinglePanel-Restriction2-r17       BIT STRING (SIZE (64)),
                            four-one-TypeI-SinglePanel-Restriction2-r17      BIT STRING (SIZE (16)),
                            three-two-TypeI-SinglePanel-Restriction2-r17     BIT STRING (SIZE (96)),
                            six-one-TypeI-SinglePanel-Restriction2-r17       BIT STRING (SIZE (24)),
                            four-two-TypeI-SinglePanel-Restriction2-r17      BIT STRING (SIZE (128)),
                            eight-one-TypeI-SinglePanel-Restriction2-r17     BIT STRING (SIZE (32)),
                            four-three-TypeI-SinglePanel-Restriction2-r17    BIT STRING (SIZE (192)),
                            six-two-TypeI-SinglePanel-Restriction2-r17       BIT STRING (SIZE (192)),
                            twelve-one-TypeI-SinglePanel-Restriction2-r17    BIT STRING (SIZE (48)),
                            four-four-TypeI-SinglePanel-Restriction2-r17     BIT STRING (SIZE (256)),
                            eight-two-TypeI-SinglePanel-Restriction2-r17     BIT STRING (SIZE (256)),
                            sixteen-one-TypeI-SinglePanel-Restriction2-r17   BIT STRING (SIZE (64))
                        }
                    }
                }
            }                                                                                       OPTIONAL,  -- Need R
            typeI-SinglePanel-ri-RestrictionSTRP-r17                    BIT STRING (SIZE (8))       OPTIONAL,  -- Need R
            typeI-SinglePanel-ri-RestrictionSDM-r17                     BIT STRING (SIZE (4))       OPTIONAL   -- Need R
        },
        type2                                 SEQUENCE {
            typeII-PortSelection-r17              SEQUENCE {
                paramCombination-r17                   INTEGER (1..8),
                valueOfN-r17                           ENUMERATED {n2, n4}                          OPTIONAL,  -- Need R
                numberOfPMI-SubbandsPerCQI-Subband-r17 INTEGER(1..2)                                OPTIONAL,  -- Need R
                typeII-PortSelectionRI-Restriction-r17 BIT STRING (SIZE (4))
            }
        }
    }
}

CodebookConfig-v1730  ::=             SEQUENCE  {
    codebookType                          CHOICE   {
        type1                                 SEQUENCE  {
            codebookMode                          INTEGER (1..2)                                    OPTIONAL   -- Need R
        }
    }
}

CodebookConfig-r18  ::=                   SEQUENCE {
    codebookType                              CHOICE {
        type2                                     CHOICE {
            typeII-CJT-r18                            SEQUENCE {
                n1-n2-codebookSubsetRestrictionList-r18   N1-N2-CBSR-List-r18,
                paramCombination-CJT-r18                  INTEGER (1..7),
                paramCombination-CJT-L-r18                SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..4)) OF INTEGER (1..5),
                restrictedCMR-Selection-r18               ENUMERATED {enable},
                valueOfO3-r18                             ENUMERATED {n1, n4}                          OPTIONAL,  -- Need R
                numberOfPMI-SubbandsPerCQI-Subband-r18    INTEGER(1..2),
                typeII-RI-Restriction-r18                 BIT STRING (SIZE (4)),
                codebookMode-r18                          INTEGER (1..2)
            },
            typeII-CJT-PortSelection-r18              SEQUENCE {
                paramCombination-CJT-PS-r18               INTEGER (1..5),
                paramCombination-CJT-PS-alpha-r18         SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..4)) OF INTEGER (1..8),
                restrictedCMR-Selection-r18               ENUMERATED {enable},
                valueOfO3-r18                             ENUMERATED {n1, n4}                          OPTIONAL,  -- Need R
                valueOfN-CJT-r18                          ENUMERATED {n2, n4}                          OPTIONAL,  -- Need R
                numberOfPMI-SubbandsPerCQI-Subband-r18    INTEGER(1..2),
                typeII-PortSelectionRI-Restriction-r18    BIT STRING (SIZE (4)),
                codebookMode-r18                          INTEGER (1..2)
            },
            typeII-Doppler-r18                        SEQUENCE {
                n1-n2-codebookSubsetRestriction-r18       N1-N2-CBSR-r18,
                paramCombination-Doppler-r18              INTEGER (1..9),
                td-dd-config-r18                          TD-DD-Config-r18,
                numberOfPMI-SubbandsPerCQI-Subband-r18    INTEGER(1..2),
                predictionDelay-r18                       ENUMERATED {m0,n0,n1,n2 },
                typeII-RI-Restriction-r18                 BIT STRING (SIZE (4))
            },
            typeII-DopplerPortSelection-r18           SEQUENCE {
                paramCombinationDoppler-PS-r18            INTEGER (1..8),
                td-dd-config-r18                          TD-DD-Config-r18,
                valueOfN-Doppler-r18                      ENUMERATED {n2, n4}                          OPTIONAL,  -- Need R
                numberOfPMI-SubbandsPerCQI-Subband-r18    INTEGER(1..2),
                predictionDelay-r18                       ENUMERATED {m0,n0,n1,n2 },
                typeII-PortSelectionRI-Restriction-r18    BIT STRING (SIZE (4))
            }
        }
    }
}

N1-N2-CBSR-List-r18 ::= CHOICE {
    two-one-r18            CHOICE {no-cbsr-r18 NULL, cbsr-list-r18 SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..4)) OF BIT STRING (SIZE (8))},
    two-two-r18            CHOICE {no-cbsr-r18 NULL, cbsr-list-r18 SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..4)) OF BIT STRING (SIZE (27))},
    four-one-r18           CHOICE {no-cbsr-r18 NULL, cbsr-list-r18 SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..4)) OF BIT STRING (SIZE (16))},
    three-two-r18          CHOICE {no-cbsr-r18 NULL, cbsr-list-r18 SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..4)) OF BIT STRING (SIZE (35))},
    six-one-r18            CHOICE {no-cbsr-r18 NULL, cbsr-list-r18 SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..4)) OF BIT STRING (SIZE (24))},
    four-two-r18           CHOICE {no-cbsr-r18 NULL, cbsr-list-r18 SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..4)) OF BIT STRING (SIZE (43))},
    eight-one-r18          CHOICE {no-cbsr-r18 NULL, cbsr-list-r18 SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..4)) OF BIT STRING (SIZE (32))},
    four-three-r18         CHOICE {no-cbsr-r18 NULL, cbsr-list-r18 SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..4)) OF BIT STRING (SIZE (59))},
    twelve-one-r18         CHOICE {no-cbsr-r18 NULL, cbsr-list-r18 SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..4)) OF BIT STRING (SIZE (48))},
    four-four-r18          CHOICE {no-cbsr-r18 NULL, cbsr-list-r18 SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..4)) OF BIT STRING (SIZE (75))},
    eight-two-r18          CHOICE {no-cbsr-r18 NULL, cbsr-list-r18 SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..4)) OF BIT STRING (SIZE (75))},
    sixteen-one-r18        CHOICE {no-cbsr-r18 NULL, cbsr-list-r18 SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..4)) OF BIT STRING (SIZE (64))}
}

N1-N2-CBSR-r18 ::=     CHOICE {
    two-one-r18            CHOICE {no-cbsr-r18 NULL, cbsr-r18 BIT STRING (SIZE (8))},
    two-two-r18            CHOICE {no-cbsr-r18 NULL, cbsr-r18 BIT STRING (SIZE (27))},
    four-one-r18           CHOICE {no-cbsr-r18 NULL, cbsr-r18 BIT STRING (SIZE (16))},
    three-two-r18          CHOICE {no-cbsr-r18 NULL, cbsr-r18 BIT STRING (SIZE (35))},
    six-one-r18            CHOICE {no-cbsr-r18 NULL, cbsr-r18 BIT STRING (SIZE (24))},
    four-two-r18           CHOICE {no-cbsr-r18 NULL, cbsr-r18 BIT STRING (SIZE (43))},
    eight-one-r18          CHOICE {no-cbsr-r18 NULL, cbsr-r18 BIT STRING (SIZE (32))},
    four-three-r18         CHOICE {no-cbsr-r18 NULL, cbsr-r18 BIT STRING (SIZE (59))},
    twelve-one-r18         CHOICE {no-cbsr-r18 NULL, cbsr-r18 BIT STRING (SIZE (48))},
    four-four-r18          CHOICE {no-cbsr-r18 NULL, cbsr-r18 BIT STRING (SIZE (75))},
    eight-two-r18          CHOICE {no-cbsr-r18 NULL, cbsr-r18 BIT STRING (SIZE (75))},
    sixteen-one-r18        CHOICE {no-cbsr-r18 NULL, cbsr-r18 BIT STRING (SIZE (64))}
}

TD-DD-Config-r18 ::=        SEQUENCE {
   vectorLengthDD-r18           ENUMERATED {n1, n2, n4, n8},
   unitDurationDD-r18           ENUMERATED {m1, m2}                                   OPTIONAL,  -- Need R
   aperiodicResourceOffset-r18  INTEGER(1..2)                                         OPTIONAL,  -- Need R
   tdCQI-r18                    ENUMERATED {n11, n12, n2, spare1}                     OPTIONAL   -- Need R
}

-- TAG-CODEBOOKCONFIG-STOP
-- ASN1STOP





–	CommonLocationInfo
The IE CommonLocationInfo is used to transfer detailed location information available at the UE to correlate measurements and UE position information.
CommonLocationInfo information element
-- ASN1START
-- TAG-COMMONLOCATIONINFO-START

CommonLocationInfo-r16 ::= SEQUENCE {
    gnss-TOD-msec-r16          OCTET STRING     OPTIONAL,
    locationTimestamp-r16      OCTET STRING     OPTIONAL,
    locationCoordinate-r16     OCTET STRING     OPTIONAL,
    locationError-r16          OCTET STRING     OPTIONAL,
    locationSource-r16         OCTET STRING     OPTIONAL,
    velocityEstimate-r16       OCTET STRING     OPTIONAL
}

-- TAG-COMMONLOCATIONINFO-STOP
-- ASN1STOP



–	CondReconfigId
The IE CondReconfigId is used to identify a CHO, CPA, CPC, subsequent CPAC, or CHO with candidate SCG(s) configuration.
CondReconfigId information element
-- ASN1START
-- TAG-CONDRECONFIGID-START

CondReconfigId-r16 ::=                    INTEGER (1.. maxNrofCondCells-r16)

-- TAG-CONDRECONFIGID-STOP
-- ASN1STOP

–	CondReconfigToAddModList
The IE CondReconfigToAddModList concerns a list of conditional reconfigurations to add or modify, with for each entry the condReconfigId and the associated fields.
CondReconfigToAddModList information element
-- ASN1START
-- TAG-CONDRECONFIGTOADDMODLIST-START

CondReconfigToAddModList-r16 ::= SEQUENCE (SIZE (1.. maxNrofCondCells-r16)) OF CondReconfigToAddMod-r16

CondReconfigToAddMod-r16 ::=     SEQUENCE {
    condReconfigId-r16               CondReconfigId-r16,
    condExecutionCond-r16            SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..2)) OF MeasId                      OPTIONAL,    -- Need M
    condRRCReconfig-r16              OCTET STRING (CONTAINING RRCReconfiguration)          OPTIONAL,    -- Cond condReconfigAdd
    ...,
    [[
    condExecutionCondSCG-r17         OCTET STRING (CONTAINING CondReconfigExecCondSCG-r17) OPTIONAL     -- Need M
    ]],
    [[
    condExecutionCondPSCell-r18      SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..2)) OF MeasId                      OPTIONAL,    -- Cond condReconfigCHO-WithSCG
    subsequentCondReconfig-r18       SubsequentCondReconfig-r18                            OPTIONAL,    -- Need M
    securityCellSetId-r18            SecurityCellSetId-r18                                 OPTIONAL,    -- Need M
    scpac-ConfigComplete-r18         ENUMERATED {true}                                     OPTIONAL     -- Cond CPAC
    ]]
}

CondReconfigExecCondSCG-r17 ::=  SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..2)) OF MeasId

SubsequentCondReconfig-r18 ::=   SEQUENCE {
    condExecutionCondToReleaseList-r18   CondExecutionCondToReleaseList-r18                OPTIONAL,   -- Need N
    condExecutionCondToAddModList-r18    CondExecutionCondToAddModList-r18                 OPTIONAL,   -- Need N
    ...
}

CondExecutionCondToAddModList-r18 ::= SEQUENCE (SIZE (1.. maxNrofCondCells-r16)) OF CondExecutionCondToAddMod-r18

CondExecutionCondToAddMod-r18 ::=    SEQUENCE {
    subsequentCondReconfigId-r18         CondReconfigId-r16,
    subsequentCondExecutionCond-r18      SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..2)) OF MeasId                      OPTIONAL,    -- Need M
    subsequentCondExecutionCondSCG-r18   OCTET STRING (CONTAINING CondReconfigExecCondSCG-r17) OPTIONAL,    -- Need M
    ...
}

CondExecutionCondToReleaseList-r18 ::= SEQUENCE (SIZE (1.. maxNrofCondCells-r16)) OF CondReconfigId-r16

-- TAG-CONDRECONFIGTOADDMODLIST-STOP
-- ASN1STOP







–	ConditionalReconfiguration
The IE ConditionalReconfiguration is used to add, modify and release the configuration of conditional reconfiguration.
ConditionalReconfiguration information element
-- ASN1START
-- TAG-CONDITIONALRECONFIGURATION-START

ConditionalReconfiguration-r16 ::=   SEQUENCE {
    attemptCondReconfig-r16              ENUMERATED {true}              OPTIONAL,   -- Cond CHO
    condReconfigToRemoveList-r16         CondReconfigToRemoveList-r16   OPTIONAL,   -- Need N
    condReconfigToAddModList-r16         CondReconfigToAddModList-r16   OPTIONAL,   -- Need N
    ...,
    [[
    scpac-ReferenceConfiguration-r18     SetupRelease {ReferenceConfiguration-r18}          OPTIONAL,   -- Need M
    servingSecurityCellSetId-r18         SecurityCellSetId-r18                              OPTIONAL,   -- Need M
    sk-CounterConfiguration-r18          SK-CounterConfiguration-r18                        OPTIONAL    -- Need M
    ]]
}

CondReconfigToRemoveList-r16 ::=     SEQUENCE (SIZE (1.. maxNrofCondCells-r16)) OF CondReconfigId-r16

SK-CounterConfiguration-r18      ::= SEQUENCE {
    sk-CounterConfigToReleaseList-r18    SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxSecurityCellSet-r18)) OF SecurityCellSetId-r18    OPTIONAL,    -- Need N
    sk-CounterConfigToAddModList-r18     SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxSecurityCellSet-r18)) OF SK-CounterConfig-r18     OPTIONAL     -- Need N
}

SK-CounterConfig-r18 ::=             SEQUENCE {
    securityCellSetId-r18                SecurityCellSetId-r18,
    sk-CounterList-r18                   SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxSK-Counter-r18)) OF SK-Counter
}

SecurityCellSetId-r18 ::= INTEGER (1.. maxSecurityCellSet-r18)

-- TAG-CONDITIONALRECONFIGURATION-STOP
-- ASN1STOP





–	ConfiguredGrantConfig
The IE ConfiguredGrantConfig is used to configure uplink transmission without dynamic grant according to two possible schemes. The actual uplink grant may either be configured via RRC (type1) or provided via the PDCCH (addressed to CS-RNTI) (type2). Multiple Configured Grant configurations may be configured in one BWP of a serving cell.
ConfiguredGrantConfig information element
-- ASN1START
-- TAG-CONFIGUREDGRANTCONFIG-START

ConfiguredGrantConfig ::=           SEQUENCE {
    frequencyHopping                    ENUMERATED {intraSlot, interSlot}                                       OPTIONAL,   -- Need S
    cg-DMRS-Configuration               DMRS-UplinkConfig,
    mcs-Table                           ENUMERATED {qam256, qam64LowSE}                                         OPTIONAL,   -- Need S
    mcs-TableTransformPrecoder          ENUMERATED {qam256, qam64LowSE}                                         OPTIONAL,   -- Need S
    uci-OnPUSCH                         SetupRelease { CG-UCI-OnPUSCH }                                         OPTIONAL,   -- Need M
    resourceAllocation                  ENUMERATED { resourceAllocationType0, resourceAllocationType1, dynamicSwitch },
    rbg-Size                            ENUMERATED {config2}                                                    OPTIONAL,   -- Need S
    powerControlLoopToUse               ENUMERATED {n0, n1},
    p0-PUSCH-Alpha                      P0-PUSCH-AlphaSetId,
    transformPrecoder                   ENUMERATED {enabled, disabled}                                          OPTIONAL,   -- Need S
    nrofHARQ-Processes                  INTEGER(1..16),
    repK                                ENUMERATED {n1, n2, n4, n8},
    repK-RV                             ENUMERATED {s1-0231, s2-0303, s3-0000}                                  OPTIONAL,   -- Need R
    periodicity                         ENUMERATED {
                                                sym2, sym7, sym1x14, sym2x14, sym4x14, sym5x14, sym8x14, sym10x14, sym16x14, sym20x14,
                                                sym32x14, sym40x14, sym64x14, sym80x14, sym128x14, sym160x14, sym256x14, sym320x14, sym512x14,
                                                sym640x14, sym1024x14, sym1280x14, sym2560x14, sym5120x14,
                                                sym6, sym1x12, sym2x12, sym4x12, sym5x12, sym8x12, sym10x12, sym16x12, sym20x12, sym32x12,
                                                sym40x12, sym64x12, sym80x12, sym128x12, sym160x12, sym256x12, sym320x12, sym512x12, sym640x12,
                                                sym1280x12, sym2560x12
    },
    configuredGrantTimer                INTEGER (1..64)                                                         OPTIONAL,   -- Need R
    rrc-ConfiguredUplinkGrant           SEQUENCE {
        timeDomainOffset                    INTEGER (0..5119),
        timeDomainAllocation                INTEGER (0..15),
        frequencyDomainAllocation           BIT STRING (SIZE(18)),
        antennaPort                         INTEGER (0..31),
        dmrs-SeqInitialization              INTEGER (0..1)                                                         OPTIONAL,   -- Need R
        precodingAndNumberOfLayers          INTEGER (0..63),
        srs-ResourceIndicator               INTEGER (0..15)                                                        OPTIONAL,   -- Need R
        mcsAndTBS                           INTEGER (0..31),
        frequencyHoppingOffset              INTEGER (1.. maxNrofPhysicalResourceBlocks-1)                          OPTIONAL,   -- Need R
        pathlossReferenceIndex              INTEGER (0..maxNrofPUSCH-PathlossReferenceRSs-1),
        ...,
        [[
        pusch-RepTypeIndicator-r16          ENUMERATED {pusch-RepTypeA,pusch-RepTypeB}                             OPTIONAL,   -- Need M
        frequencyHoppingPUSCH-RepTypeB-r16  ENUMERATED {interRepetition, interSlot}                                OPTIONAL,   -- Cond RepTypeB
        timeReferenceSFN-r16                ENUMERATED {sfn512}                                                    OPTIONAL    -- Need S
        ]],
        [[
        pathlossReferenceIndex2-r17         INTEGER (0..maxNrofPUSCH-PathlossReferenceRSs-1)                       OPTIONAL,   -- Need R
        srs-ResourceIndicator2-r17          INTEGER (0..15)                                                        OPTIONAL,   -- Need R
        precodingAndNumberOfLayers2-r17     INTEGER (0..63)                                                        OPTIONAL,   -- Need R
        timeDomainAllocation-v1710          INTEGER (16..63)                                                       OPTIONAL,   -- Need M
        timeDomainOffset-r17                INTEGER (0..40959)                                                     OPTIONAL,   -- Need R
        cg-SDT-Configuration-r17            CG-SDT-Configuration-r17                                               OPTIONAL    -- Need M
        ]],
        [[
        srs-ResourceSetId-r18               SRS-ResourceSetId                                                      OPTIONAL,   -- Need R
        cg-LTM-Configuration-r18            CG-RRC-Configuration-r18                                               OPTIONAL, -- Cond LTM
        cg-SDT-PeriodicityExt-r18          ENUMERATED {
                                               sym1x14x1280, sym2x14x1280, sym4x14x1280 , sym8x14x1280, sym16x14x1280,
                                               sym32x14x1280, sym48x14x1280, sym64x14x1280, sym96x14x1280, sym128x14x1280,
                                               sym192x14x1280, sym240x14x1280, sym256x14x1280, sym384x14x1280, sym472x14x1280,
                                               sym480x14x1280, sym512x14x1280, sym768x14x1280, sym944x14x1280, sym960x14x1280,
                                               sym1408x14x1280, sym1536x14x1280, sym1888x14x1280, sym1920x14x1280,
                                               sym2816x14x1280, sym3072x14x1280, sym3776x14x1280, sym5632x14x1280,
                                               sym6144x14x1280, sym7552x14x1280, sym7680x14x1280, sym11264x14x1280,
                                               sym15104x14x1280, sym15360x14x1280, sym22528x14x1280, sym30208x14x1280,
                                               sym45056x14x1280, sym60416x14x1280, sym90112x14x1280, sym180224x14x1280,
                                               sym4x12x1280, sym8x12x1280, sym16x12x1280, sym32x12x1280, sym192x12x1280,
                                               sym384x12x1280, sym960x12x1280, sym1888x12x1280, sym3776x12x1280,
                                               sym5632x12x1280, sym11264x12x1280, spare13, spare12, spare11, spare10, spare9,
                                               spare8, spare7, spare6, spare5, spare4, spare3, spare2, spare1
                                            }                                                                OPTIONAL,   -- Cond CG-SDT1
        timeReferenceHyperSFN-r18           INTEGER (0..1023)                                                OPTIONAL,   -- Cond CG-SDT2
        cg-RRC-Configuration-r18            CG-RRC-Configuration-r18                                       OPTIONAL, -- Cond RACH-LessHO
        applyIndicatedTCI-State-r18         ENUMERATED {first, second, both, spare1}                               OPTIONAL    -- Need R
        ]]
    }                                                                                                              OPTIONAL,   -- Need R
    ...,
    [[
    cg-RetransmissionTimer-r16          INTEGER (1..64)                                                            OPTIONAL,   -- Need R
    cg-minDFI-Delay-r16                 ENUMERATED
                                                    {sym7, sym1x14, sym2x14, sym3x14, sym4x14, sym5x14, sym6x14, sym7x14, sym8x14,
                                                     sym9x14, sym10x14, sym11x14, sym12x14, sym13x14, sym14x14,sym15x14, sym16x14
                                                    }                                                       OPTIONAL,   -- Need R
    cg-nrofPUSCH-InSlot-r16             INTEGER (1..7)                                                  OPTIONAL,   -- Need R
    cg-nrofSlots-r16                    INTEGER (1..40)                                                 OPTIONAL,   -- Need R
    cg-StartingOffsets-r16              CG-StartingOffsets-r16                                          OPTIONAL,   -- Need R
    cg-UCI-Multiplexing-r16             ENUMERATED {enabled}                                            OPTIONAL,   -- Need R
    cg-COT-SharingOffset-r16            INTEGER (1..39)                                                 OPTIONAL,   -- Need R
    betaOffsetCG-UCI-r16                INTEGER (0..31)                                                 OPTIONAL,   -- Need R
    cg-COT-SharingList-r16              SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..1709)) OF CG-COT-Sharing-r16                 OPTIONAL,   -- Need R
    harq-ProcID-Offset-r16              INTEGER (0..15)                                                 OPTIONAL,   -- Need M
    harq-ProcID-Offset2-r16             INTEGER (0..15)                                                 OPTIONAL,   -- Need M
    configuredGrantConfigIndex-r16      ConfiguredGrantConfigIndex-r16                                  OPTIONAL,   -- Cond CG-List
    configuredGrantConfigIndexMAC-r16   ConfiguredGrantConfigIndexMAC-r16                               OPTIONAL,   -- Cond CG-IndexMAC
    periodicityExt-r16                  INTEGER (1..5120)                                               OPTIONAL,   -- Need R
    startingFromRV0-r16                 ENUMERATED {on, off}                                            OPTIONAL,   -- Need R
    phy-PriorityIndex-r16               ENUMERATED {p0, p1}                                             OPTIONAL,   -- Need R
    autonomousTx-r16                    ENUMERATED {enabled}                                OPTIONAL    -- Cond LCH-BasedPrioritization
    ]],
    [[
    cg-betaOffsetsCrossPri0-r17         SetupRelease { BetaOffsetsCrossPriSelCG-r17 }                   OPTIONAL,   -- Need M
    cg-betaOffsetsCrossPri1-r17         SetupRelease { BetaOffsetsCrossPriSelCG-r17 }                   OPTIONAL,   -- Need M
    mappingPattern-r17                  ENUMERATED {cyclicMapping, sequentialMapping}                   OPTIONAL,   -- Cond SRSsets
    sequenceOffsetForRV-r17             INTEGER (0..3)                                                  OPTIONAL,   -- Need R
    p0-PUSCH-Alpha2-r17                 P0-PUSCH-AlphaSetId                                             OPTIONAL,   -- Need R
    powerControlLoopToUse2-r17          ENUMERATED {n0, n1}                                             OPTIONAL,   -- Need R
    cg-COT-SharingList-r17              SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..50722)) OF CG-COT-Sharing-r17                OPTIONAL,   -- Need R
    periodicityExt-r17                  INTEGER (1..40960)                                              OPTIONAL,   -- Need R
    repK-v1710                          ENUMERATED {n12, n16, n24, n32}                                 OPTIONAL,   -- Need R
    nrofHARQ-Processes-v1700            INTEGER(17..32)                                                 OPTIONAL,   -- Need M
    harq-ProcID-Offset2-v1700           INTEGER (16..31)                                                OPTIONAL,   -- Need R
    configuredGrantTimer-v1700          INTEGER(33..288)                                                OPTIONAL,   -- Need R
    cg-minDFI-Delay-v1710               INTEGER (238..3584)                                             OPTIONAL    -- Need R
    ]],
    [[
    harq-ProcID-Offset-v1730            INTEGER (16..31)                                                OPTIONAL,   -- Need R
    cg-nrofSlots-r17                    INTEGER (1..320)                                                OPTIONAL    -- Need R
    ]],
    [[
    disableCG-RetransmissionMonitoring-r18  ENUMERATED {true}                                           OPTIONAL,   -- Need R
    nrofSlotsInCG-Period-r18            INTEGER (2..32)                                                 OPTIONAL,   -- Need R
    uto-UCI-Config-r18                      SEQUENCE {
        nrofBitsInUTO-UCI-r18               INTEGER (3..8),
        betaOffsetUTO-UCI-r18               INTEGER (0..31),
         ...
    }                                                                                                   OPTIONAL    -- Need R
    ]],
    [[
    precodingAndNumberOfLayers-v1850    INTEGER (64..1023)                                              OPTIONAL,   -- Need R
    srs-ResourceIndicator-v1850         INTEGER (16..255)                                               OPTIONAL    -- Need R
    ]]
}

CG-UCI-OnPUSCH ::= CHOICE {
    dynamic                                 SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..4)) OF BetaOffsets,
    semiStatic                              BetaOffsets
}

CG-COT-Sharing-r16 ::= CHOICE {
    noCOT-Sharing-r16                   NULL,
    cot-Sharing-r16                     SEQUENCE {
         duration-r16                       INTEGER (1..39),
         offset-r16                         INTEGER (1..39),
         channelAccessPriority-r16          INTEGER (1..4)
    }
}

CG-COT-Sharing-r17 ::=  CHOICE {
    noCOT-Sharing-r17                   NULL,
    cot-Sharing-r17                     SEQUENCE {
         duration-r17                       INTEGER (1..319),
         offset-r17                         INTEGER (1..319)
    }
}

CG-StartingOffsets-r16 ::= SEQUENCE {
    cg-StartingFullBW-InsideCOT-r16         SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..7)) OF INTEGER (0..6)             OPTIONAL,   -- Need R
    cg-StartingFullBW-OutsideCOT-r16        SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..7)) OF INTEGER (0..6)             OPTIONAL,   -- Need R
    cg-StartingPartialBW-InsideCOT-r16      INTEGER (0..6)                                       OPTIONAL,   -- Need R
    cg-StartingPartialBW-OutsideCOT-r16     INTEGER (0..6)                                       OPTIONAL    -- Need R
}

BetaOffsetsCrossPriSelCG-r17 ::= CHOICE {
    dynamic-r17         SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..4)) OF BetaOffsetsCrossPri-r17,
    semiStatic-r17      BetaOffsetsCrossPri-r17
}

CG-SDT-Configuration-r17 ::= SEQUENCE {
    cg-SDT-RetransmissionTimer   INTEGER (1..64)                                                 OPTIONAL,   -- Need R
    sdt-SSB-Subset-r17       CHOICE {
        shortBitmap-r17          BIT STRING (SIZE (4)),
        mediumBitmap-r17         BIT STRING (SIZE (8)),
        longBitmap-r17           BIT STRING (SIZE (64))
    }                                                                                            OPTIONAL,   -- Need S
    sdt-SSB-PerCG-PUSCH-r17   ENUMERATED {oneEighth, oneFourth, half, one, two, four, eight, sixteen}  OPTIONAL,   -- Need M
    sdt-P0-PUSCH-r17         INTEGER (-16..15)                                                   OPTIONAL, -- Need M
    sdt-Alpha-r17            ENUMERATED {alpha0, alpha04, alpha05, alpha06, alpha07, alpha08, alpha09, alpha1} OPTIONAL, -- Need M
    sdt-DMRS-Ports-r17       CHOICE {
        dmrsType1-r17            BIT STRING (SIZE (8)),
        dmrsType2-r17            BIT STRING (SIZE (12))
    }                                                                                            OPTIONAL,  -- Need M
    sdt-NrofDMRS-Sequences-r17  INTEGER (1..2)                                                   OPTIONAL   -- Need M
}

CG-RRC-Configuration-r18 ::=   SEQUENCE {
    cg-RRC-RetransmissionTimer-r18 INTEGER (1..288)                                               OPTIONAL,   -- Need R
    cg-RRC-RSRP-ThresholdSSB-r18   RSRP-Range                                                    OPTIONAL,   -- Need R
    rrc-SSB-Subset-r18             CHOICE {
        shortBitmap-r18                BIT STRING (SIZE (4)),
        mediumBitmap-r18               BIT STRING (SIZE (8)),
        longBitmap-r18                 BIT STRING (SIZE (64))
    }                                                                                            OPTIONAL,   -- Need S
    rrc-SSB-PerCG-PUSCH-r18        ENUMERATED {oneEighth, oneFourth, half, one, two, four, eight, sixteen}  OPTIONAL,   -- Need M
    rrc-P0-PUSCH-r18               INTEGER (-16..15)                                             OPTIONAL,   -- Need M
    rrc-Alpha-r18                  ENUMERATED {alpha0, alpha04, alpha05, alpha06, alpha07, alpha08, alpha09, alpha1} OPTIONAL, -- Need M
    rrc-DMRS-Ports-r18             CHOICE {
        dmrsType1-r18                  BIT STRING (SIZE (8)),
        dmrsType2-r18                  BIT STRING (SIZE (12))
    }                                                                                             OPTIONAL,  -- Need M
    rrc-NrofDMRS-Sequences-r18  INTEGER (1..2)                                                    OPTIONAL,  -- Need M
    ...
}
-- TAG-CONFIGUREDGRANTCONFIG-STOP
-- ASN1STOP











–	ConfiguredGrantConfigIndex
The IE ConfiguredGrantConfigIndex is used to indicate the index of one of multiple UL Configured Grant configurations in one BWP.
ConfiguredGrantConfigIndex information element
-- ASN1START
-- TAG-CONFIGUREDGRANTCONFIGINDEX-START

ConfiguredGrantConfigIndex-r16 ::= INTEGER (0.. maxNrofConfiguredGrantConfig-1-r16)

-- TAG-CONFIGUREDGRANTCONFIGINDEX-STOP
-- ASN1STOP

–	ConfiguredGrantConfigIndexMAC
The IE ConfiguredGrantConfigIndexMAC is used to indicate the unique Configured Grant configurations index per MAC entity.
ConfiguredGrantConfigIndexMAC information element
-- ASN1START
-- TAG-CONFIGUREDGRANTCONFIGINDEXMAC-START

ConfiguredGrantConfigIndexMAC-r16 ::= INTEGER (0.. maxNrofConfiguredGrantConfigMAC-1-r16)

-- TAG-CONFIGUREDGRANTCONFIGINDEXMAC-STOP
-- ASN1STOP

–	ConnEstFailureControl
The IE ConnEstFailureControl is used to configure parameters for connection establishment failure control.
ConnEstFailureControl information element
-- ASN1START
-- TAG-CONNESTFAILURECONTROL-START

ConnEstFailureControl ::=   SEQUENCE {
    connEstFailCount                    ENUMERATED {n1, n2, n3, n4},
    connEstFailOffsetValidity           ENUMERATED {s30, s60, s120, s240, s300, s420, s600, s900},
    connEstFailOffset                   INTEGER (0..15)                                                         OPTIONAL    -- Need S
}

-- TAG-CONNESTFAILURECONTROL-STOP
-- ASN1STOP



–	ControlResourceSet
The IE ControlResourceSet is used to configure a time/frequency control resource set (CORESET) in which to search for downlink control information (see TS 38.213 [13], clause 10.1). For the UE not supporting multipleCORESET in FR1, in order to receive MBS multicast in CFR within the UE's active BWP, if a CORESET is not configured within the PDCCH-ConfigMulticast, the CORESET other than CORESET#0 configured within the UE's active BWP for scheduling unicast can be used for scheduling MBS multicast, and the CORESET is expected to be included completely within the CFR and the parameters configured in the CORESET are expected to be supported by the UE for MBS multicast.
ControlResourceSet information element
-- ASN1START
-- TAG-CONTROLRESOURCESET-START

ControlResourceSet ::=              SEQUENCE {
    controlResourceSetId                ControlResourceSetId,
    frequencyDomainResources            BIT STRING (SIZE (45)),
    duration                            INTEGER (1..maxCoReSetDuration),
    cce-REG-MappingType                 CHOICE {
        interleaved                         SEQUENCE {
            reg-BundleSize                      ENUMERATED {n2, n3, n6},
            interleaverSize                     ENUMERATED {n2, n3, n6},
            shiftIndex                          INTEGER(0..maxNrofPhysicalResourceBlocks-1)       OPTIONAL -- Need S
        },
        nonInterleaved                      NULL
    },
    precoderGranularity                 ENUMERATED {sameAsREG-bundle, allContiguousRBs},
    tci-StatesPDCCH-ToAddList           SEQUENCE(SIZE (1..maxNrofTCI-StatesPDCCH)) OF TCI-StateId OPTIONAL, -- Cond NotSIB-initialBWP
    tci-StatesPDCCH-ToReleaseList       SEQUENCE(SIZE (1..maxNrofTCI-StatesPDCCH)) OF TCI-StateId OPTIONAL, -- Cond NotSIB-initialBWP
    tci-PresentInDCI                        ENUMERATED {enabled}                                  OPTIONAL, -- Need S
    pdcch-DMRS-ScramblingID                 INTEGER (0..65535)                                    OPTIONAL, -- Need S
    ...,
    [[
    rb-Offset-r16                       INTEGER (0..5)                                            OPTIONAL, -- Need S
    tci-PresentDCI-1-2-r16              INTEGER (1..3)                                            OPTIONAL, -- Need S
    coresetPoolIndex-r16                INTEGER (0..1)                                            OPTIONAL, -- Need S
    controlResourceSetId-v1610          ControlResourceSetId-v1610                                OPTIONAL  -- Need S
    ]],
    [[
    followUnifiedTCI-State-r17          ENUMERATED {enabled}                                      OPTIONAL  -- Need R
    ]],
    [[
    applyIndicatedTCI-State-r18         ENUMERATED {first, second, both,  none}                   OPTIONAL  -- Cond FollowUTCI
    ]]
}

-- TAG-CONTROLRESOURCESET-STOP
-- ASN1STOP





–	ControlResourceSetId
The ControlResourceSetId IE concerns a short identity, used to identify a control resource set within a serving cell. The ControlResourceSetId = 0 identifies the ControlResourceSet#0 configured via PBCH (MIB) and in controlResourceSetZero (ServingCellConfigCommon). The ID space is used across the BWPs and MBS CFRs of a Serving Cell.
ControlResourceSetId information element
-- ASN1START
-- TAG-CONTROLRESOURCESETID-START

ControlResourceSetId ::=                INTEGER (0..maxNrofControlResourceSets-1)

ControlResourceSetId-r16 ::=            INTEGER (0..maxNrofControlResourceSets-1-r16)

ControlResourceSetId-v1610 ::=          INTEGER (maxNrofControlResourceSets..maxNrofControlResourceSets-1-r16)

-- TAG-CONTROLRESOURCESETID-STOP
-- ASN1STOP

–	ControlResourceSetZero
The IE ControlResourceSetZero is used to configure CORESET#0 of the initial BWP (see TS 38.213 [13], clause 13).
ControlResourceSetZero information element
-- ASN1START
-- TAG-CONTROLRESOURCESETZERO-START

ControlResourceSetZero ::=                  INTEGER (0..15)

-- TAG-CONTROLRESOURCESETZERO-STOP
-- ASN1STOP

–	CrossCarrierSchedulingConfig
The IE CrossCarrierSchedulingConfig is used to specify the configuration when the cross-carrier scheduling is used in a cell.
CrossCarrierSchedulingConfig information element
-- ASN1START
-- TAG-CROSSCARRIERSCHEDULINGCONFIG-START

CrossCarrierSchedulingConfig ::=        SEQUENCE {
    schedulingCellInfo                      CHOICE {
        own                                     SEQUENCE {                  -- Cross carrier scheduling: scheduling cell
            cif-Presence                            BOOLEAN
        },
        other                                   SEQUENCE {                  -- Cross carrier scheduling: scheduled cell
            schedulingCellId                        ServCellIndex,
            cif-InSchedulingCell                    INTEGER (1..7)
        }
    },
    ...,
    [[
    carrierIndicatorSize-r16            SEQUENCE {
        carrierIndicatorSizeDCI-1-2-r16        INTEGER (0..3),
        carrierIndicatorSizeDCI-0-2-r16        INTEGER (0..3)
    }                                                                                       OPTIONAL,  -- Cond CIF-PRESENCE
    enableDefaultBeamForCCS-r16         ENUMERATED {enabled}                                OPTIONAL  -- Need S
    ]],
    [[
    ccs-BlindDetectionSplit-r17         ENUMERATED {oneSeventh, threeFourteenth, twoSeventh, threeSeventh,
                                            oneHalf, fourSeventh, fiveSeventh, spare1}      OPTIONAL  -- Need R
    ]]
}

-- TAG-CROSSCARRIERSCHEDULINGCONFIG-STOP
-- ASN1STOP





–	CSI-AperiodicTriggerStateList
The CSI-AperiodicTriggerStateList IE is used to configure the UE with a list of aperiodic trigger states. Each codepoint of the DCI field "CSI request" is associated with one trigger state (see TS 38.321 [3], clause 6.1.3.13). Upon reception of the value associated with a trigger state, the UE will perform measurement of CSI-RS, CSI-IM and/or SSB (reference signals) and aperiodic reporting on L1 according to all entries in the associatedReportConfigInfoList for that trigger state.
CSI-AperiodicTriggerStateList information element
-- ASN1START
-- TAG-CSI-APERIODICTRIGGERSTATELIST-START

CSI-AperiodicTriggerStateList ::=   SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxNrOfCSI-AperiodicTriggers)) OF CSI-AperiodicTriggerState

CSI-AperiodicTriggerState ::=       SEQUENCE {
    associatedReportConfigInfoList      SEQUENCE (SIZE(1..maxNrofReportConfigPerAperiodicTrigger)) OF CSI-AssociatedReportConfigInfo,
    ...,
    [[
    ap-CSI-MultiplexingMode-r17         ENUMERATED {enabled}                                          OPTIONAL  -- Need R
    ]],
    [[
    ltm-AssociatedReportConfigInfo-r18  LTM-CSI-ReportConfigId-r18                                    OPTIONAL  -- Need R
    ]]
}

CSI-AssociatedReportConfigInfo ::=  SEQUENCE {
    reportConfigId                      CSI-ReportConfigId,
    resourcesForChannel                 CHOICE {
        nzp-CSI-RS                          SEQUENCE {
            resourceSet                         INTEGER (1..maxNrofNZP-CSI-RS-ResourceSetsPerConfig),
            qcl-info                            SEQUENCE (SIZE(1..maxNrofAP-CSI-RS-ResourcesPerSet)) OF TCI-StateId
                                                                                                      OPTIONAL  -- Cond Aperiodic
        },
        csi-SSB-ResourceSet                 INTEGER (1..maxNrofCSI-SSB-ResourceSetsPerConfig)
    },
    csi-IM-ResourcesForInterference     INTEGER(1..maxNrofCSI-IM-ResourceSetsPerConfig)               OPTIONAL, -- Cond CSI-IM-ForInterference
    nzp-CSI-RS-ResourcesForInterference INTEGER (1..maxNrofNZP-CSI-RS-ResourceSetsPerConfig)          OPTIONAL, -- Cond NZP-CSI-RS-ForInterference
    ...,
    [[
    resourcesForChannel2-r17        CHOICE {
        nzp-CSI-RS2-r17                 SEQUENCE {
            resourceSet2-r17                INTEGER (1..maxNrofNZP-CSI-RS-ResourceSetsPerConfig),
            qcl-info2-r17                   SEQUENCE (SIZE(1..maxNrofAP-CSI-RS-ResourcesPerSet)) OF TCI-StateId
                                                                                                  OPTIONAL   -- Cond Aperiodic
        },
        csi-SSB-ResourceSet2-r17        INTEGER (1..maxNrofCSI-SSB-ResourceSetsPerConfigExt)
    }                                                                                             OPTIONAL,  -- Need R
    csi-SSB-ResourceSetExt          INTEGER (1..maxNrofCSI-SSB-ResourceSetsPerConfigExt)          OPTIONAL   -- Need R
    ]],
    [[
    resourcesForChannelTDCP-r18     SEQUENCE {
            resourceSet2TDCP-r18        INTEGER (1..maxNrofNZP-CSI-RS-ResourceSetsPerConfig),
            resourceSet3TDCP-r18        INTEGER (1..maxNrofNZP-CSI-RS-ResourceSetsPerConfig)              OPTIONAL  -- Need R
    }                                                                                                     OPTIONAL,  -- Cond TDCP
    applyIndicatedTCI-State-r18     CHOICE {
        perSet-r18                      ENUMERATED {first, second},
        perResource-r18                 SEQUENCE (SIZE(1..maxNrofAP-CSI-RS-ResourcesPerSet)) OF ENUMERATED {first, second}
    }                                                                                                OPTIONAL, -- Cond ApplyIndicatedTCI
    applyIndicatedTCI-State2-r18    CHOICE {
         perSet-r18                     ENUMERATED {first, second},
         perResource-r18                SEQUENCE (SIZE(1..maxNrofAP-CSI-RS-ResourcesPerSet)) OF  ENUMERATED {first, second}
    }                                                                                                     OPTIONAL, -- Cond SecondCSICMR
    csi-ReportSubConfigTriggerList-r18  CSI-ReportSubConfigTriggerList-r18                                OPTIONAL   -- Need R
    ]]
}

-- TAG-CSI-APERIODICTRIGGERSTATELIST-STOP
-- ASN1STOP







–	CSI-FrequencyOccupation
The IE CSI-FrequencyOccupation is used to configure the frequency domain occupation of a channel state information measurement resource (e.g. NZP-CSI-RS-Resource, CSI-IM-Resource).
CSI-FrequencyOccupation information element
-- ASN1START
-- TAG-CSI-FREQUENCYOCCUPATION-START

CSI-FrequencyOccupation ::=         SEQUENCE {
    startingRB                          INTEGER (0..maxNrofPhysicalResourceBlocks-1),
    nrofRBs                             INTEGER (24..maxNrofPhysicalResourceBlocksPlus1),
    ...
}

-- TAG-CSI-FREQUENCYOCCUPATION-STOP
-- ASN1STOP



–	CSI-IM-Resource
The IE CSI-IM-Resource is used to configure one CSI Interference Management (IM) resource.
CSI-IM-Resource information element
-- ASN1START
-- TAG-CSI-IM-RESOURCE-START

CSI-IM-Resource ::=                 SEQUENCE {
    csi-IM-ResourceId                   CSI-IM-ResourceId,
    csi-IM-ResourceElementPattern           CHOICE {
        pattern0                                SEQUENCE {
            subcarrierLocation-p0                   ENUMERATED { s0, s2, s4, s6, s8, s10 },
            symbolLocation-p0                       INTEGER (0..12)
        },
        pattern1                                SEQUENCE {
            subcarrierLocation-p1                   ENUMERATED { s0, s4, s8 },
            symbolLocation-p1                       INTEGER (0..13)
        }
    }                                                                                   OPTIONAL,   -- Need M
    freqBand                            CSI-FrequencyOccupation                         OPTIONAL,   -- Need M
    periodicityAndOffset                CSI-ResourcePeriodicityAndOffset                OPTIONAL,   -- Cond PeriodicOrSemiPersistent
    ...
}

-- TAG-CSI-IM-RESOURCE-STOP
-- ASN1STOP





–	CSI-IM-ResourceId
The IE CSI-IM-ResourceId is used to identify one CSI-IM-Resource.
CSI-IM-ResourceId information element
-- ASN1START
-- TAG-CSI-IM-RESOURCEID-START

CSI-IM-ResourceId ::=               INTEGER (0..maxNrofCSI-IM-Resources-1)

-- TAG-CSI-IM-RESOURCEID-STOP
-- ASN1STOP

–	CSI-IM-ResourceSet
The IE CSI-IM-ResourceSet is used to configure a set of one or more CSI Interference Management (IM) resources (their IDs) and set-specific parameters.
CSI-IM-ResourceSet information element
-- ASN1START
-- TAG-CSI-IM-RESOURCESET-START

CSI-IM-ResourceSet ::=              SEQUENCE {
    csi-IM-ResourceSetId                CSI-IM-ResourceSetId,
    csi-IM-Resources                    SEQUENCE (SIZE(1..maxNrofCSI-IM-ResourcesPerSet)) OF CSI-IM-ResourceId,
    ...
}
-- TAG-CSI-IM-RESOURCESET-STOP
-- ASN1STOP



–	CSI-IM-ResourceSetId
The IE CSI-IM-ResourceSetId is used to identify CSI-IM-ResourceSets.
CSI-IM-ResourceSetId information element
-- ASN1START
-- TAG-CSI-IM-RESOURCESETID-START

CSI-IM-ResourceSetId ::=            INTEGER (0..maxNrofCSI-IM-ResourceSets-1)

-- TAG-CSI-IM-RESOURCESETID-STOP
-- ASN1STOP

–	CSI-MeasConfig
The IE CSI-MeasConfig is used to configure CSI-RS (reference signals) belonging to the serving cell in which CSI-MeasConfig is included, channel state information reports to be transmitted on PUCCH on the serving cell in which CSI-MeasConfig is included and channel state information reports on PUSCH triggered by DCI received on the serving cell in which CSI-MeasConfig is included. See also TS 38.214 [19], clause 5.2.
CSI-MeasConfig information element
-- ASN1START
-- TAG-CSI-MEASCONFIG-START

CSI-MeasConfig ::=                  SEQUENCE {
    nzp-CSI-RS-ResourceToAddModList     SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxNrofNZP-CSI-RS-Resources)) OF NZP-CSI-RS-Resource   OPTIONAL, -- Need N
    nzp-CSI-RS-ResourceToReleaseList    SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxNrofNZP-CSI-RS-Resources)) OF NZP-CSI-RS-ResourceId OPTIONAL, -- Need N
    nzp-CSI-RS-ResourceSetToAddModList  SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxNrofNZP-CSI-RS-ResourceSets)) OF NZP-CSI-RS-ResourceSet
                                                                                                                  OPTIONAL, -- Need N
    nzp-CSI-RS-ResourceSetToReleaseList SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxNrofNZP-CSI-RS-ResourceSets)) OF NZP-CSI-RS-ResourceSetId
                                                                                                                  OPTIONAL, -- Need N
    csi-IM-ResourceToAddModList         SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxNrofCSI-IM-Resources)) OF CSI-IM-Resource           OPTIONAL, -- Need N
    csi-IM-ResourceToReleaseList        SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxNrofCSI-IM-Resources)) OF CSI-IM-ResourceId         OPTIONAL, -- Need N
    csi-IM-ResourceSetToAddModList      SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxNrofCSI-IM-ResourceSets)) OF CSI-IM-ResourceSet     OPTIONAL, -- Need N
    csi-IM-ResourceSetToReleaseList     SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxNrofCSI-IM-ResourceSets)) OF CSI-IM-ResourceSetId   OPTIONAL, -- Need N
    csi-SSB-ResourceSetToAddModList     SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxNrofCSI-SSB-ResourceSets)) OF CSI-SSB-ResourceSet   OPTIONAL, -- Need N
    csi-SSB-ResourceSetToReleaseList    SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxNrofCSI-SSB-ResourceSets)) OF CSI-SSB-ResourceSetId OPTIONAL, -- Need N
    csi-ResourceConfigToAddModList      SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxNrofCSI-ResourceConfigurations)) OF CSI-ResourceConfig
                                                                                                                  OPTIONAL, -- Need N
    csi-ResourceConfigToReleaseList     SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxNrofCSI-ResourceConfigurations)) OF CSI-ResourceConfigId
                                                                                                                  OPTIONAL, -- Need N
    csi-ReportConfigToAddModList        SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxNrofCSI-ReportConfigurations)) OF CSI-ReportConfig  OPTIONAL, -- Need N
    csi-ReportConfigToReleaseList       SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxNrofCSI-ReportConfigurations)) OF CSI-ReportConfigId
                                                                                                                  OPTIONAL, -- Need N
    reportTriggerSize                   INTEGER (0..6)                                                            OPTIONAL, -- Need M
    aperiodicTriggerStateList           SetupRelease { CSI-AperiodicTriggerStateList }                            OPTIONAL, -- Need M
    semiPersistentOnPUSCH-TriggerStateList    SetupRelease { CSI-SemiPersistentOnPUSCH-TriggerStateList }         OPTIONAL, -- Need M
    ...,
    [[
    reportTriggerSizeDCI-0-2-r16        INTEGER (0..6)                                                            OPTIONAL -- Need R
    ]],
    [[
    sCellActivationRS-ConfigToAddModList-r17  SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxNrofSCellActRS-r17)) OF SCellActivationRS-Config-r17   OPTIONAL, -- Need N
    sCellActivationRS-ConfigToReleaseList-r17 SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxNrofSCellActRS-r17)) OF SCellActivationRS-ConfigId-r17 OPTIONAL  -- Need N
    ]],
    [[
    ltm-CSI-ReportConfigToAddModList-r18   SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxNrofLTM-CSI-ReportConfigurations-r18)) OF LTM-CSI-ReportConfig-r18
                                                                                                                  OPTIONAL, -- Need N
    ltm-CSI-ReportConfigToReleaseList-r18  SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxNrofLTM-CSI-ReportConfigurations-r18)) OF LTM-CSI-ReportConfigId-r18
                                                                                                                  OPTIONAL  -- Need N
    ]]
}

-- TAG-CSI-MEASCONFIG-STOP
-- ASN1STOP



–	CSI-ReportConfig
The IE CSI-ReportConfig is used to configure a periodic or semi-persistent report sent on PUCCH on the cell in which the CSI-ReportConfig is included, or to configure a semi-persistent or aperiodic report sent on PUSCH triggered by DCI received on the cell in which the CSI-ReportConfig is included (in this case, the cell on which the report is sent is determined by the received DCI). See TS 38.214 [19], clause 5.2.1.
CSI-ReportConfig information element
-- ASN1START
-- TAG-CSI-REPORTCONFIG-START

CSI-ReportConfig ::=                SEQUENCE {
    reportConfigId                          CSI-ReportConfigId,
    carrier                                 ServCellIndex                   OPTIONAL,   -- Need S
    resourcesForChannelMeasurement          CSI-ResourceConfigId,
    csi-IM-ResourcesForInterference         CSI-ResourceConfigId            OPTIONAL,   -- Need R
    nzp-CSI-RS-ResourcesForInterference     CSI-ResourceConfigId            OPTIONAL,   -- Need R
    reportConfigType                        CHOICE {
        periodic                                SEQUENCE {
            reportSlotConfig                        CSI-ReportPeriodicityAndOffset,
            pucch-CSI-ResourceList                  SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxNrofBWPs)) OF PUCCH-CSI-Resource
        },
        semiPersistentOnPUCCH                   SEQUENCE {
            reportSlotConfig                        CSI-ReportPeriodicityAndOffset,
            pucch-CSI-ResourceList                  SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxNrofBWPs)) OF PUCCH-CSI-Resource
        },
        semiPersistentOnPUSCH                   SEQUENCE {
            reportSlotConfig                        ENUMERATED {sl5, sl10, sl20, sl40, sl80, sl160, sl320},
            reportSlotOffsetList                SEQUENCE (SIZE (1.. maxNrofUL-Allocations)) OF INTEGER(0..32),
            p0alpha                                 P0-PUSCH-AlphaSetId
        },
        aperiodic                               SEQUENCE {
            reportSlotOffsetList                SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxNrofUL-Allocations)) OF INTEGER(0..32)
        }
    },
    reportQuantity                          CHOICE {
        none                                    NULL,
        cri-RI-PMI-CQI                          NULL,
        cri-RI-i1                               NULL,
        cri-RI-i1-CQI                           SEQUENCE {
            pdsch-BundleSizeForCSI                  ENUMERATED {n2, n4}                                         OPTIONAL    -- Need S
        },
        cri-RI-CQI                              NULL,
        cri-RSRP                                NULL,
        ssb-Index-RSRP                          NULL,
        cri-RI-LI-PMI-CQI                       NULL
    },
    reportFreqConfiguration                 SEQUENCE {
        cqi-FormatIndicator                     ENUMERATED { widebandCQI, subbandCQI }                          OPTIONAL,   -- Need R
        pmi-FormatIndicator                     ENUMERATED { widebandPMI, subbandPMI }                          OPTIONAL,   -- Need R
        csi-ReportingBand                       CHOICE {
            subbands3                               BIT STRING(SIZE(3)),
            subbands4                               BIT STRING(SIZE(4)),
            subbands5                               BIT STRING(SIZE(5)),
            subbands6                               BIT STRING(SIZE(6)),
            subbands7                               BIT STRING(SIZE(7)),
            subbands8                               BIT STRING(SIZE(8)),
            subbands9                               BIT STRING(SIZE(9)),
            subbands10                              BIT STRING(SIZE(10)),
            subbands11                              BIT STRING(SIZE(11)),
            subbands12                              BIT STRING(SIZE(12)),
            subbands13                              BIT STRING(SIZE(13)),
            subbands14                              BIT STRING(SIZE(14)),
            subbands15                              BIT STRING(SIZE(15)),
            subbands16                              BIT STRING(SIZE(16)),
            subbands17                              BIT STRING(SIZE(17)),
            subbands18                              BIT STRING(SIZE(18)),
            ...,
            subbands19-v1530                        BIT STRING(SIZE(19))
        }   OPTIONAL    -- Need S

    }                                                                                                           OPTIONAL,   -- Need R
    timeRestrictionForChannelMeasurements           ENUMERATED {configured, notConfigured},
    timeRestrictionForInterferenceMeasurements      ENUMERATED {configured, notConfigured},
    codebookConfig                                  CodebookConfig                                              OPTIONAL,   -- Need R
    dummy                                           ENUMERATED {n1, n2}                                         OPTIONAL,   -- Need R
    groupBasedBeamReporting                     CHOICE {
        enabled                                     NULL,
        disabled                                    SEQUENCE {
            nrofReportedRS                          ENUMERATED {n1, n2, n3, n4}                                 OPTIONAL    -- Need S
        }
    },
    cqi-Table                   ENUMERATED {table1, table2, table3, table4-r17}                                     OPTIONAL,   -- Need R
    subbandSize                 ENUMERATED {value1, value2},
    non-PMI-PortIndication      SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxNrofNZP-CSI-RS-ResourcesPerConfig)) OF PortIndexFor8Ranks OPTIONAL,   -- Need R
    ...,
    [[
    semiPersistentOnPUSCH-v1530         SEQUENCE {
        reportSlotConfig-v1530              ENUMERATED {sl4, sl8, sl16}
    }                                                                                                           OPTIONAL    -- Need R
    ]],
    [[
    semiPersistentOnPUSCH-v1610         SEQUENCE {
        reportSlotOffsetListDCI-0-2-r16     SEQUENCE (SIZE (1.. maxNrofUL-Allocations-r16)) OF INTEGER(0..32)   OPTIONAL,    -- Need R
        reportSlotOffsetListDCI-0-1-r16     SEQUENCE (SIZE (1.. maxNrofUL-Allocations-r16)) OF INTEGER(0..32)   OPTIONAL     -- Need R
    }                                                                                                           OPTIONAL,    -- Need R
    aperiodic-v1610                     SEQUENCE {
        reportSlotOffsetListDCI-0-2-r16     SEQUENCE (SIZE (1.. maxNrofUL-Allocations-r16)) OF INTEGER(0..32)   OPTIONAL,    -- Need R
        reportSlotOffsetListDCI-0-1-r16     SEQUENCE (SIZE (1.. maxNrofUL-Allocations-r16)) OF INTEGER(0..32)   OPTIONAL     -- Need R
    }                                                                                                           OPTIONAL,    -- Need R
    reportQuantity-r16                  CHOICE {
       cri-SINR-r16                         NULL,
       ssb-Index-SINR-r16                   NULL
    }                                                                                                           OPTIONAL,   -- Need R
    codebookConfig-r16                          CodebookConfig-r16                                              OPTIONAL    -- Need R
    ]],
    [[
    cqi-BitsPerSubband-r17              ENUMERATED {bits4}                                                      OPTIONAL,   -- Need R
    groupBasedBeamReporting-v1710       SEQUENCE {
        nrofReportedGroups-r17              ENUMERATED {n1, n2, n3, n4}
    }                                                                                                           OPTIONAL,   -- Need R
    codebookConfig-r17                  CodebookConfig-r17                                                      OPTIONAL,   -- Need R
    sharedCMR-r17                       ENUMERATED {enable}                                                     OPTIONAL,   -- Need R
    csi-ReportMode-r17                  ENUMERATED {mode1, mode2}                                               OPTIONAL,   -- Need R
    numberOfSingleTRP-CSI-Mode1-r17     ENUMERATED {n0, n1, n2}                                                 OPTIONAL,   -- Need R
    reportQuantity-r17                  CHOICE {
        cri-RSRP-Index-r17                  NULL,
        ssb-Index-RSRP-Index-r17            NULL,
        cri-SINR-Index-r17                  NULL,
        ssb-Index-SINR-Index-r17            NULL
    }                                                                                                           OPTIONAL    -- Need R
    ]],
    [[
    semiPersistentOnPUSCH-v1720         SEQUENCE {
        reportSlotOffsetList-r17            SEQUENCE (SIZE (1.. maxNrofUL-Allocations-r16)) OF INTEGER(0..128)  OPTIONAL,   -- Need R
        reportSlotOffsetListDCI-0-2-r17     SEQUENCE (SIZE (1.. maxNrofUL-Allocations-r16)) OF INTEGER(0..128)  OPTIONAL,   -- Need R
        reportSlotOffsetListDCI-0-1-r17     SEQUENCE (SIZE (1.. maxNrofUL-Allocations-r16)) OF INTEGER(0..128)  OPTIONAL    -- Need R
    }                                                                                                           OPTIONAL,   -- Need R
    aperiodic-v1720                     SEQUENCE {
        reportSlotOffsetList-r17            SEQUENCE (SIZE (1.. maxNrofUL-Allocations-r16)) OF INTEGER(0..128)  OPTIONAL,   -- Need R
        reportSlotOffsetListDCI-0-2-r17     SEQUENCE (SIZE (1.. maxNrofUL-Allocations-r16)) OF INTEGER(0..128)  OPTIONAL,   -- Need R
        reportSlotOffsetListDCI-0-1-r17     SEQUENCE (SIZE (1.. maxNrofUL-Allocations-r16)) OF INTEGER(0..128)  OPTIONAL    -- Need R
    }                                                                                                           OPTIONAL    -- Need R
    ]],
    [[
    codebookConfig-v1730                CodebookConfig-v1730                                                    OPTIONAL    -- Need R
    ]],
    [[
    groupBasedBeamReporting-v1800       SEQUENCE {
        reportingMode-r18                   ENUMERATED {jointULDL, onlyUL}
    }                                                                                                           OPTIONAL,   -- Need R
    reportQuantity-r18                  TDCP-r18                                                                OPTIONAL,   -- Need R
    codebookConfig-r18                  CodebookConfig-r18                                                      OPTIONAL,   -- Need R
    csi-ReportSubConfigToAddModList-r18 SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxNrofCSI-ReportSubconfigPerCSI-ReportConfig-r18)) OF CSI-ReportSubConfig-r18
                                                                                                                OPTIONAL,   -- Need N
    csi-ReportSubConfigToReleaseList-r18 SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxNrofCSI-ReportSubconfigPerCSI-ReportConfig-r18)) OF CSI-ReportSubConfigId-r18
                                                                                                                OPTIONAL    -- Need N
    ]]
}

PortIndexFor8Ranks ::=              CHOICE {
    portIndex8                          SEQUENCE{
        rank1-8                             PortIndex8                                                      OPTIONAL,   -- Need R
        rank2-8                             SEQUENCE(SIZE(2)) OF PortIndex8                                 OPTIONAL,   -- Need R
        rank3-8                             SEQUENCE(SIZE(3)) OF PortIndex8                                 OPTIONAL,   -- Need R
        rank4-8                             SEQUENCE(SIZE(4)) OF PortIndex8                                 OPTIONAL,   -- Need R
        rank5-8                             SEQUENCE(SIZE(5)) OF PortIndex8                                 OPTIONAL,   -- Need R
        rank6-8                             SEQUENCE(SIZE(6)) OF PortIndex8                                 OPTIONAL,   -- Need R
        rank7-8                             SEQUENCE(SIZE(7)) OF PortIndex8                                 OPTIONAL,   -- Need R
        rank8-8                             SEQUENCE(SIZE(8)) OF PortIndex8                                 OPTIONAL    -- Need R
    },
    portIndex4                          SEQUENCE{
        rank1-4                             PortIndex4                                                      OPTIONAL,   -- Need R
        rank2-4                             SEQUENCE(SIZE(2)) OF PortIndex4                                 OPTIONAL,   -- Need R
        rank3-4                             SEQUENCE(SIZE(3)) OF PortIndex4                                 OPTIONAL,   -- Need R
        rank4-4                             SEQUENCE(SIZE(4)) OF PortIndex4                                 OPTIONAL    -- Need R
    },
    portIndex2                          SEQUENCE{
        rank1-2                             PortIndex2                                                      OPTIONAL,   -- Need R
        rank2-2                             SEQUENCE(SIZE(2)) OF PortIndex2                                 OPTIONAL    -- Need R
    },
    portIndex1                          NULL
}

PortIndex8::=                       INTEGER (0..7)
PortIndex4::=                       INTEGER (0..3)
PortIndex2::=                       INTEGER (0..1)

TDCP-r18 ::=                        SEQUENCE {
    delayDSetofLengthY-r18              SEQUENCE (SIZE (1.. maxNrofdelayD-r18)) OF DelayD,
    phaseReporting-r18                  ENUMERATED {enable}                                                 OPTIONAL    -- Need R
}

DelayD ::=                          ENUMERATED { symb4, slot1, slot2, slot3, slot4, slot5, slot6, slot10 }

CSI-ReportSubConfig-r18 ::=         SEQUENCE {
    reportSubConfigId-r18               CSI-ReportSubConfigId-r18,
    reportSubConfigParams-r18           CHOICE {
        a1-parameters                       SEQUENCE {
            codebookSubConfig-r18               CodebookConfig                                              OPTIONAL,   -- Need R
            portSubsetIndicator-r18             CHOICE {
                p2                                  BIT STRING (SIZE (2)),
                p4                                  BIT STRING (SIZE (4)),
                p8                                  BIT STRING (SIZE (8)),
                p12                                 BIT STRING (SIZE (12)),
                p16                                 BIT STRING (SIZE (16)),
                p24                                 BIT STRING (SIZE (24)),
                p32                                 BIT STRING (SIZE (32))
            }                                                                                               OPTIONAL,   -- Need R
            non-PMI-PortIndication-r18          SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxNrofNZP-CSI-RS-ResourcesPerConfig)) OF PortIndexFor8Ranks
                                                                                                            OPTIONAL   --  Need R
        },
        a2-parameters                       SEQUENCE {
            nzp-CSI-RS-ResourceList-r18         SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxNrofNZP-CSI-RS-ResourcesPerSet)) OF NZP-CSI-RS-ResourceIndex-r18
        }
    }                                                                                                       OPTIONAL,   -- Need R
    powerOffset-r18                     INTEGER(0..23)                                                      OPTIONAL    -- Need R
}

NZP-CSI-RS-ResourceIndex-r18 ::=    INTEGER (0..maxNrofNZP-CSI-RS-ResourcesPerSet-1-r18)

-- TAG-CSI-REPORTCONFIG-STOP
-- ASN1STOP









–	CSI-ReportConfigId
The IE CSI-ReportConfigId is used to identify one CSI-ReportConfig.
CSI-ReportConfigId information element
-- ASN1START
-- TAG-CSI-REPORTCONFIGID-START

CSI-ReportConfigId ::=              INTEGER (0..maxNrofCSI-ReportConfigurations-1)

-- TAG-CSI-REPORTCONFIGID-STOP
-- ASN1STOP

–	CSI-ReportPeriodicityAndOffset
The IE CSI-ReportPeriodicityAndOffset is used to configure a periodicity and a corresponding offset. Both the periodicity and the offset are given in number of slots. The periodicity value slots4 corresponds to 4 slots, value slots5 corresponds to 5 slots, and so on.
CSI-ReportPeriodicityAndOffset information element
-- ASN1START
-- TAG-CSI-REPORTPERIODICITYANDOFFSET-START

CSI-ReportPeriodicityAndOffset ::=  CHOICE {
    slots4                              INTEGER(0..3),
    slots5                              INTEGER(0..4),
    slots8                              INTEGER(0..7),
    slots10                             INTEGER(0..9),
    slots16                             INTEGER(0..15),
    slots20                             INTEGER(0..19),
    slots40                             INTEGER(0..39),
    slots80                             INTEGER(0..79),
    slots160                            INTEGER(0..159),
    slots320                            INTEGER(0..319)
}

-- TAG-CSI-REPORTPERIODICITYANDOFFSET-STOP
-- ASN1STOP

–	CSI-ReportSubConfigId
The IE CSI-ReportSubConfigId is used to indicate the index of one CSI-ReportSubConfig within a CSI report configuration.
CSI-ReportSubConfigId information element
-- ASN1START
-- TAG-CSI-REPORTSUBCONFIGID-START

CSI-ReportSubConfigId-r18 ::=              INTEGER (0..maxNrofCSI-ReportSubconfigPerCSI-ReportConfig-1-r18)

-- TAG-CSI-REPORTSUBCONFIGID-STOP
-- ASN1STOP

–	CSI-ReportSubConfigTriggerList
The IE CSI-ReportSubConfigTriggerList is used to configure a list of sub-configuration ID(s) of N sub-configurations out of L configured sub-configurations within a CSI-ReportConfig associated with a triggering state for semi-persistent CSI reporting on PUSCH and aperiodic CSI reporting.
CSI-ReportSubConfigTriggerList information element
-- ASN1START
-- TAG-CSI-REPORTSUBCONFIGTRIGGERLIST-START

CSI-ReportSubConfigTriggerList-r18 ::= SEQUENCE (SIZE(1..maxNrofCSI-ReportSubconfigPerCSI-ReportConfig-r18)) OF CSI-ReportSubConfigId-r18

-- TAG-CSI-REPORTSUBCONFIGTRIGGERLIST-STOP
-- ASN1STOP

–	CSI-ResourceConfig
The IE CSI-ResourceConfig defines a group of one or more NZP-CSI-RS-ResourceSet, CSI-IM-ResourceSet and/or CSI-SSB-ResourceSet.
CSI-ResourceConfig information element
-- ASN1START
-- TAG-CSI-RESOURCECONFIG-START

CSI-ResourceConfig ::=      SEQUENCE {
    csi-ResourceConfigId        CSI-ResourceConfigId,
    csi-RS-ResourceSetList      CHOICE {
        nzp-CSI-RS-SSB              SEQUENCE {
            nzp-CSI-RS-ResourceSetList  SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxNrofNZP-CSI-RS-ResourceSetsPerConfig)) OF NZP-CSI-RS-ResourceSetId
                                                                                                                            OPTIONAL, -- Need R
            csi-SSB-ResourceSetList     SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxNrofCSI-SSB-ResourceSetsPerConfig)) OF CSI-SSB-ResourceSetId  OPTIONAL  -- Need R
        },
        csi-IM-ResourceSetList      SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxNrofCSI-IM-ResourceSetsPerConfig)) OF CSI-IM-ResourceSetId
    },

    bwp-Id                      BWP-Id,
    resourceType                ENUMERATED { aperiodic, semiPersistent, periodic },
    ...,
    [[
    csi-SSB-ResourceSetListExt-r17      CSI-SSB-ResourceSetId                                                  OPTIONAL  -- Need R
    ]]
}

-- TAG-CSI-RESOURCECONFIG-STOP
-- ASN1STOP



–	CSI-ResourceConfigId
The IE CSI-ResourceConfigId is used to identify a CSI-ResourceConfig.
CSI-ResourceConfigId information element
-- ASN1START
-- TAG-CSI-RESOURCECONFIGID-START

CSI-ResourceConfigId ::=            INTEGER (0..maxNrofCSI-ResourceConfigurations-1)

-- TAG-CSI-RESOURCECONFIGID-STOP
-- ASN1STOP

–	CSI-ResourcePeriodicityAndOffset
The IE CSI-ResourcePeriodicityAndOffset is used to configure a periodicity and a corresponding offset for periodic and semi-persistent CSI resources, and for periodic and semi-persistent reporting on PUCCH. both, the periodicity and the offset are given in number of slots. The periodicity value slots4 corresponds to 4 slots, value slots5 corresponds to 5 slots, and so on.
CSI-ResourcePeriodicityAndOffset information element
-- ASN1START
-- TAG-CSI-RESOURCEPERIODICITYANDOFFSET-START

CSI-ResourcePeriodicityAndOffset ::=    CHOICE {
    slots4                                  INTEGER (0..3),
    slots5                                  INTEGER (0..4),
    slots8                                  INTEGER (0..7),
    slots10                                 INTEGER (0..9),
    slots16                                 INTEGER (0..15),
    slots20                                 INTEGER (0..19),
    slots32                                 INTEGER (0..31),
    slots40                                 INTEGER (0..39),
    slots64                                 INTEGER (0..63),
    slots80                                 INTEGER (0..79),
    slots160                                INTEGER (0..159),
    slots320                                INTEGER (0..319),
    slots640                                INTEGER (0..639)
}

-- TAG-CSI-RESOURCEPERIODICITYANDOFFSET-STOP
-- ASN1STOP

–	CSI-RS-ResourceConfigMobility
The IE CSI-RS-ResourceConfigMobility is used to configure CSI-RS based RRM measurements.
CSI-RS-ResourceConfigMobility information element
-- ASN1START
-- TAG-CSI-RS-RESOURCECONFIGMOBILITY-START

CSI-RS-ResourceConfigMobility ::=   SEQUENCE {
    subcarrierSpacing                   SubcarrierSpacing,
    csi-RS-CellList-Mobility            SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxNrofCSI-RS-CellsRRM)) OF CSI-RS-CellMobility,
    ...,
    [[
    refServCellIndex                    ServCellIndex                                                           OPTIONAL    -- Need S
    ]]


}

CSI-RS-CellMobility ::=             SEQUENCE {
    cellId                              PhysCellId,
    csi-rs-MeasurementBW                SEQUENCE {
        nrofPRBs                            ENUMERATED { size24, size48, size96, size192, size264},
        startPRB                            INTEGER(0..2169)
    },
    density                             ENUMERATED {d1,d3}                                                      OPTIONAL,   -- Need R
    csi-rs-ResourceList-Mobility        SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxNrofCSI-RS-ResourcesRRM)) OF CSI-RS-Resource-Mobility
}

CSI-RS-Resource-Mobility ::=        SEQUENCE {
    csi-RS-Index                        CSI-RS-Index,
    slotConfig                          CHOICE {
        ms4                                 INTEGER (0..31),
        ms5                                 INTEGER (0..39),
        ms10                                INTEGER (0..79),
        ms20                                INTEGER (0..159),
        ms40                                INTEGER (0..319)
    },
    associatedSSB                       SEQUENCE {
        ssb-Index                           SSB-Index,
        isQuasiColocated                    BOOLEAN
    }                                                                                                           OPTIONAL, -- Need R
    frequencyDomainAllocation           CHOICE {
        row1                                BIT STRING (SIZE (4)),
        row2                                BIT STRING (SIZE (12))
    },
    firstOFDMSymbolInTimeDomain         INTEGER (0..13),
    sequenceGenerationConfig            INTEGER (0..1023),
    ...,
    [[
    slotConfig-r17                      CHOICE {
        ms4                                 INTEGER (0..255),
        ms5                                 INTEGER (0..319),
        ms10                                INTEGER (0..639),
        ms20                                INTEGER (0..1279),
        ms40                                INTEGER (0..2559)
    }                                                                                                           OPTIONAL  -- Need R
    ]]
}

CSI-RS-Index ::=                    INTEGER (0..maxNrofCSI-RS-ResourcesRRM-1)

-- TAG-CSI-RS-RESOURCECONFIGMOBILITY-STOP
-- ASN1STOP







–	CSI-RS-ResourceMapping
The IE CSI-RS-ResourceMapping is used to configure the resource element mapping of a CSI-RS resource in time- and frequency domain.
CSI-RS-ResourceMapping information element
-- ASN1START
-- TAG-CSI-RS-RESOURCEMAPPING-START

CSI-RS-ResourceMapping ::=          SEQUENCE {
    frequencyDomainAllocation           CHOICE {
        row1                                BIT STRING (SIZE (4)),
        row2                                BIT STRING (SIZE (12)),
        row4                                BIT STRING (SIZE (3)),
        other                               BIT STRING (SIZE (6))
    },
    nrofPorts                           ENUMERATED {p1,p2,p4,p8,p12,p16,p24,p32},
    firstOFDMSymbolInTimeDomain         INTEGER (0..13),
    firstOFDMSymbolInTimeDomain2        INTEGER (2..12)                                                         OPTIONAL,   -- Need R
    cdm-Type                            ENUMERATED {noCDM, fd-CDM2, cdm4-FD2-TD2, cdm8-FD2-TD4},
    density                             CHOICE {
        dot5                                ENUMERATED {evenPRBs, oddPRBs},
        one                                 NULL,
        three                               NULL,
        spare                               NULL
    },
    freqBand                            CSI-FrequencyOccupation,
    ...
}

-- TAG-CSI-RS-RESOURCEMAPPING-STOP
-- ASN1STOP



–	CSI-SemiPersistentOnPUSCH-TriggerStateList
The CSI-SemiPersistentOnPUSCH-TriggerStateList IE is used to configure the UE with list of trigger states for semi-persistent reporting of channel state information on L1. See also TS 38.214 [19], clause 5.2.
CSI-SemiPersistentOnPUSCH-TriggerStateList information element
-- ASN1START
-- TAG-CSI-SEMIPERSISTENTONPUSCHTRIGGERSTATELIST-START

CSI-SemiPersistentOnPUSCH-TriggerStateList ::= SEQUENCE(SIZE (1..maxNrOfSemiPersistentPUSCH-Triggers)) OF CSI-SemiPersistentOnPUSCH-TriggerState

CSI-SemiPersistentOnPUSCH-TriggerState ::=     SEQUENCE {
    associatedReportConfigInfo                     CSI-ReportConfigId,
    ...,
    [[
    sp-CSI-MultiplexingMode-r17                    ENUMERATED {enabled}                                           OPTIONAL   -- Need R
    ]],
    [[
    csi-ReportSubConfigTriggerList-r18             CSI-ReportSubConfigTriggerList-r18                             OPTIONAL,  -- Need R
    ltm-AssociatedReportConfigInfo-r18             LTM-CSI-ReportConfigId-r18                                     OPTIONAL   -- Need R
    ]]
}

-- TAG-CSI-SEMIPERSISTENTONPUSCHTRIGGERSTATELIST-STOP
-- ASN1STOP



–	CSI-SSB-ResourceSet
The IE CSI-SSB-ResourceSet is used to configure one SS/PBCH block resource set which refers to SS/PBCH as indicated in ServingCellConfigCommon and ServingCellConfig.
CSI-SSB-ResourceSet information element
-- ASN1START
-- TAG-CSI-SSB-RESOURCESET-START

CSI-SSB-ResourceSet ::=             SEQUENCE {
    csi-SSB-ResourceSetId               CSI-SSB-ResourceSetId,
    csi-SSB-ResourceList                SEQUENCE (SIZE(1..maxNrofCSI-SSB-ResourcePerSet)) OF SSB-Index,
    ...,
    [[
    servingAdditionalPCIList-r17        SEQUENCE (SIZE(1..maxNrofCSI-SSB-ResourcePerSet)) OF ServingAdditionalPCIIndex-r17  OPTIONAL  -- Need R
    ]]
}

ServingAdditionalPCIIndex-r17  ::=  INTEGER(0..maxNrofAdditionalPCI-r17)

-- TAG-CSI-SSB-RESOURCESET-STOP
-- ASN1STOP



–	CSI-SSB-ResourceSetId
The IE CSI-SSB-ResourceSetId is used to identify one SS/PBCH block resource set.
CSI-SSB-ResourceId information element
-- ASN1START
-- TAG-CSI-SSB-RESOURCESETID-START

CSI-SSB-ResourceSetId ::=           INTEGER (0..maxNrofCSI-SSB-ResourceSets-1)

-- TAG-CSI-SSB-RESOURCESETID-STOP
-- ASN1STOP

–	DedicatedNAS-Message
The IE DedicatedNAS-Message is used to transfer UE specific NAS layer information between the 5GC CN and the UE. The RRC layer is transparent for this information.
DedicatedNAS-Message information element
-- ASN1START
-- TAG-DEDICATED-NAS-MESSAGE-START

DedicatedNAS-Message ::=        OCTET STRING

-- TAG-DEDICATED-NAS-MESSAGE-STOP
-- ASN1STOP

–	DL-PPW-PreConfig
The IE DL-PPW-PreConfig provides configuration for a measurement window where a UE is expected to measure the DL PRS, if it is inside the active DL BWP and with the same numerology as the active DL BWP. Based upon the indication received in the configuration, the UE identifies whether the DL PRS priority is higher than that of the other DL signals or channels and accordingly determines, for example, the UE is expected to measure the DL PRS and is not expected to receive other DL signals and channels.
DL-PPW-PreConfig information element
-- ASN1START
-- TAG-DL-PPW-PRECONFIG-START

DL-PPW-PreConfig-r17 ::= SEQUENCE {
    dl-PPW-ID-r17            DL-PPW-ID-r17,
    dl-PPW-PeriodicityAndStartSlot-r17     DL-PPW-PeriodicityAndStartSlot-r17,
    length-r17                               INTEGER (1..160),
    type-r17                                 ENUMERATED {type1A, type1B, type2}                            OPTIONAL, -- Cond MultiType
    priority-r17                             ENUMERATED {st1, st2, st3}                                    OPTIONAL  -- Cond MultiState
}

DL-PPW-ID-r17 ::= INTEGER  (0..maxNrofPPW-ID-1-r17)

DL-PPW-PeriodicityAndStartSlot-r17 ::= CHOICE {
    scs15                                    CHOICE {
                      n4                         INTEGER (0..3),
                      n5                         INTEGER (0..4),
                      n8                         INTEGER (0..7),
                      n10                        INTEGER (0..9),
                      n16                        INTEGER (0..15),
                      n20                        INTEGER (0..19),
                      n32                        INTEGER (0..31),
                      n40                        INTEGER (0..39),
                      n64                        INTEGER (0..63),
                      n80                        INTEGER (0..79),
                      n160                       INTEGER (0..159),
                      n320                       INTEGER (0..319),
                      n640                       INTEGER (0..639),
                      n1280                      INTEGER (0..1279),
                      n2560                      INTEGER (0..2559),
                      n5120                      INTEGER (0..5119),
                      n10240                     INTEGER (0..10239),
                     ...
    },
    scs30                                    CHOICE {
                      n8                         INTEGER (0..7),
                      n10                        INTEGER (0..9),
                      n16                        INTEGER (0..15),
                      n20                        INTEGER (0..19),
                      n32                        INTEGER (0..31),
                      n40                        INTEGER (0..39),
                      n64                        INTEGER (0..63),
                      n80                        INTEGER (0..79),
                      n128                       INTEGER (0..127),
                      n160                       INTEGER (0..159),
                      n320                       INTEGER (0..319),
                      n640                       INTEGER (0..639),
                      n1280                      INTEGER (0..1279),
                      n2560                      INTEGER (0..2559),
                      n5120                      INTEGER (0..5119),
                      n10240                     INTEGER (0..10239),
                      n20480                     INTEGER (0..20479),
                      ...
    },
    scs60                                    CHOICE {
                      n16                        INTEGER (0..15),
                      n20                        INTEGER (0..19),
                      n32                        INTEGER (0..31),
                      n40                        INTEGER (0..39),
                      n64                        INTEGER (0..63),
                      n80                        INTEGER (0..79),
                      n128                       INTEGER (0..127),
                      n160                       INTEGER (0..159),
                      n256                       INTEGER (0..255),
                      n320                       INTEGER (0..319),
                      n640                       INTEGER (0..639),
                      n1280                      INTEGER (0..1279),
                      n2560                      INTEGER (0..2559),
                      n5120                      INTEGER (0..5119),
                      n10240                     INTEGER (0..10239),
                      n20480                     INTEGER (0..20479),
                      n40960                     INTEGER (0..40959),
                      ...
    },
    scs120                                   CHOICE {
                      n32                        INTEGER (0..31),
                      n40                        INTEGER (0..39),
                      n64                        INTEGER (0..63),
                      n80                        INTEGER (0..79),
                      n128                       INTEGER (0..127),
                      n160                       INTEGER (0..159),
                      n256                       INTEGER (0..255),
                      n320                       INTEGER (0..319),
                      n512                       INTEGER (0..511),
                      n640                       INTEGER (0..639),
                      n1280                      INTEGER (0..1279),
                      n2560                      INTEGER (0..2559),
                      n5120                      INTEGER (0..5119),
                      n10240                     INTEGER (0..10239),
                      n20480                     INTEGER (0..20479),
                      n40960                     INTEGER (0..40959),
                      n81920                     INTEGER (0..81919),
                     ...
    },
    ...
}

-- TAG-DL-PPW-PRECONFIG-STOP
-- ASN1STOP





–	DMRS-BundlingPUCCH-Config
The IE DMRS-BundlingPUCCH-Config-r17 is used to configure DMRS bundling for PUCCH.
DMRS-BundlingPUCCH-Config information element
-- ASN1START
-- TAG-DMRS-BUNDLINGPUCCH-CONFIG-START

DMRS-BundlingPUCCH-Config-r17 ::=         SEQUENCE {
    pucch-DMRS-Bundling-r17                   ENUMERATED {enabled}                                            OPTIONAL,   -- Need R
    pucch-TimeDomainWindowLength-r17          INTEGER (2..8)                                                  OPTIONAL,   -- Need S
    pucch-WindowRestart-r17                   ENUMERATED {enabled}                                            OPTIONAL,   -- Need R
    pucch-FrequencyHoppingInterval-r17        ENUMERATED {s2, s4, s5, s10}                                    OPTIONAL,   -- Need S
    ...
}

-- TAG-DMRS-BUNDLINGPUCCH-CONFIG-STOP
-- ASN1STOP



–	DMRS-BundlingPUSCH-Config
The IE DMRS-BundlingPUSCH-Config-r17 is used to configure DMRS bundling for PUSCH.
DMRS-BundlingPUSCH-Config information element
-- ASN1START
-- TAG-DMRS-BUNDLINGPUSCH-CONFIG-START

DMRS-BundlingPUSCH-Config-r17 ::=          SEQUENCE {
    pusch-DMRS-Bundling-r17                    ENUMERATED {enabled}                                            OPTIONAL,   -- Need R
    pusch-TimeDomainWindowLength-r17           INTEGER (2..32)                                                 OPTIONAL,   -- Need S
    pusch-WindowRestart-r17                    ENUMERATED {enabled}                                            OPTIONAL,   -- Need R
    pusch-FrequencyHoppingInterval-r17         ENUMERATED {s2, s4, s5, s6, s8, s10, s12, s14, s16, s20}        OPTIONAL,   -- Need S
    ...
}

-- TAG-DMRS-BUNDLINGPUSCH-CONFIG-STOP
-- ASN1STOP



–	DMRS-DownlinkConfig
The IE DMRS-DownlinkConfig is used to configure downlink demodulation reference signals for PDSCH.
DMRS-DownlinkConfig information element
-- ASN1START
-- TAG-DMRS-DOWNLINKCONFIG-START

DMRS-DownlinkConfig ::=             SEQUENCE {
    dmrs-Type                           ENUMERATED {type2}                                                      OPTIONAL,   -- Need S
    dmrs-AdditionalPosition             ENUMERATED {pos0, pos1, pos3}                                           OPTIONAL,   -- Need S
    maxLength                           ENUMERATED {len2}                                                       OPTIONAL,   -- Need S
    scramblingID0                       INTEGER (0..65535)                                                      OPTIONAL,   -- Need S
    scramblingID1                       INTEGER (0..65535)                                                      OPTIONAL,   -- Need S
    phaseTrackingRS                     SetupRelease { PTRS-DownlinkConfig  }                                   OPTIONAL,   -- Need M
    ...,
    [[
    dmrs-Downlink-r16               ENUMERATED {enabled}                                                        OPTIONAL    -- Need R
    ]],
    [[
    dmrs-TypeEnh-r18                ENUMERATED {enabled}                                                        OPTIONAL    -- Need R
    ]]
}

-- TAG-DMRS-DOWNLINKCONFIG-STOP
-- ASN1STOP



–	DMRS-UplinkConfig
The IE DMRS-UplinkConfig is used to configure uplink demodulation reference signals for PUSCH.
DMRS-UplinkConfig information element
-- ASN1START
-- TAG-DMRS-UPLINKCONFIG-START

DMRS-UplinkConfig ::=               SEQUENCE {
    dmrs-Type                           ENUMERATED {type2}                                                  OPTIONAL,   -- Need S
    dmrs-AdditionalPosition             ENUMERATED {pos0, pos1, pos3}                                       OPTIONAL,   -- Need S
    phaseTrackingRS                     SetupRelease { PTRS-UplinkConfig }                                  OPTIONAL,   -- Need M
    maxLength                           ENUMERATED {len2}                                                   OPTIONAL,   -- Need S
    transformPrecodingDisabled          SEQUENCE {
        scramblingID0                       INTEGER (0..65535)                                              OPTIONAL,   -- Need S
        scramblingID1                       INTEGER (0..65535)                                              OPTIONAL,   -- Need S
        ...,
        [[
        dmrs-Uplink-r16                     ENUMERATED {enabled}                                            OPTIONAL    -- Need R
        ]]
    }                                                                                                       OPTIONAL,   -- Need R
    transformPrecodingEnabled           SEQUENCE {
        nPUSCH-Identity                     INTEGER(0..1007)                                                OPTIONAL,   -- Need S
        sequenceGroupHopping                ENUMERATED {disabled}                                           OPTIONAL,   -- Need S
        sequenceHopping                     ENUMERATED {enabled}                                            OPTIONAL,   -- Need S
        ...,
        [[
        dmrs-UplinkTransformPrecoding-r16   SetupRelease {DMRS-UplinkTransformPrecoding-r16}                OPTIONAL    -- Need M
        ]]
    }                                                                                                       OPTIONAL,   -- Need R
    ...,
    [[
    dmrs-TypeEnh-r18                    ENUMERATED {enabled}                                                OPTIONAL    -- Need R
    ]]
}

DMRS-UplinkTransformPrecoding-r16  ::=  SEQUENCE {
    pi2BPSK-ScramblingID0                   INTEGER(0..65535)                                               OPTIONAL,   -- Need S
    pi2BPSK-ScramblingID1                   INTEGER(0..65535)                                               OPTIONAL    -- Need S
}

-- TAG-DMRS-UPLINKCONFIG-STOP
-- ASN1STOP



–	DownlinkConfigCommon
The IE DownlinkConfigCommon provides common downlink parameters of a cell.
DownlinkConfigCommon information element
-- ASN1START
-- TAG-DOWNLINKCONFIGCOMMON-START

DownlinkConfigCommon ::=        SEQUENCE {
    frequencyInfoDL                 FrequencyInfoDL                                 OPTIONAL,   -- Cond InterFreqHOAndServCellAdd
    initialDownlinkBWP              BWP-DownlinkCommon                              OPTIONAL,   -- Cond ServCellAdd
    ...,
    [[
    initialDownlinkBWP-RedCap-r17   BWP-DownlinkCommon                              OPTIONAL    -- Need R

    ]]
}

-- TAG-DOWNLINKCONFIGCOMMON-STOP
-- ASN1STOP





–	DownlinkConfigCommonSIB
The IE DownlinkConfigCommonSIB provides common downlink parameters of a cell.
DownlinkConfigCommonSIB information element
-- ASN1START
-- TAG-DOWNLINKCONFIGCOMMONSIB-START

DownlinkConfigCommonSIB ::=     SEQUENCE {
    frequencyInfoDL                 FrequencyInfoDL-SIB,
    initialDownlinkBWP              BWP-DownlinkCommon,
    bcch-Config                     BCCH-Config,
    pcch-Config                     PCCH-Config,
    ...,
    [[
    pei-Config-r17                  PEI-Config-r17                         OPTIONAL,     -- Need R
    initialDownlinkBWP-RedCap-r17   BWP-DownlinkCommon                     OPTIONAL      -- Need R
    ]],
    [[
    frequencyInfoDL-v1800           FrequencyInfoDL-SIB-v1800              OPTIONAL      -- Need R
    ]]
}

DownlinkConfigCommonSIB-v1760 ::=   SEQUENCE {
    frequencyInfoDL-v1760               FrequencyInfoDL-SIB-v1760
}

BCCH-Config ::=                 SEQUENCE {
    modificationPeriodCoeff         ENUMERATED {n2, n4, n8, n16},
    ...
}


PCCH-Config ::=             SEQUENCE {
    defaultPagingCycle                  PagingCycle,
    nAndPagingFrameOffset               CHOICE {
        oneT                                NULL,
        halfT                               INTEGER (0..1),
        quarterT                            INTEGER (0..3),
        oneEighthT                          INTEGER (0..7),
        oneSixteenthT                       INTEGER (0..15)
    },
    ns                                  ENUMERATED {four, two, one},
    firstPDCCH-MonitoringOccasionOfPO   CHOICE {
        sCS15KHZoneT                                                                SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxPO-perPF)) OF INTEGER (0..139),
        sCS30KHZoneT-SCS15KHZhalfT                                                  SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxPO-perPF)) OF INTEGER (0..279),
        sCS60KHZoneT-SCS30KHZhalfT-SCS15KHZquarterT                                 SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxPO-perPF)) OF INTEGER (0..559),
        sCS120KHZoneT-SCS60KHZhalfT-SCS30KHZquarterT-SCS15KHZoneEighthT             SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxPO-perPF)) OF INTEGER (0..1119),
        sCS120KHZhalfT-SCS60KHZquarterT-SCS30KHZoneEighthT-SCS15KHZoneSixteenthT    SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxPO-perPF)) OF INTEGER (0..2239),
        sCS480KHZoneT-SCS120KHZquarterT-SCS60KHZoneEighthT-SCS30KHZoneSixteenthT    SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxPO-perPF)) OF INTEGER (0..4479),
        sCS480KHZhalfT-SCS120KHZoneEighthT-SCS60KHZoneSixteenthT                    SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxPO-perPF)) OF INTEGER (0..8959),
        sCS480KHZquarterT-SCS120KHZoneSixteenthT                                    SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxPO-perPF)) OF INTEGER (0..17919)
    }      OPTIONAL,           -- Need R
    ...,
    [[
    nrofPDCCH-MonitoringOccasionPerSSB-InPO-r16        INTEGER (2..4)               OPTIONAL  -- Cond SharedSpectrum2
    ]],
    [[
    ranPagingInIdlePO-r17                              ENUMERATED {true}            OPTIONAL,  -- Need R

    firstPDCCH-MonitoringOccasionOfPO-v1710  CHOICE {
       sCS480KHZoneEighthT        SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxPO-perPF)) OF INTEGER (0..35839),
       sCS480KHZoneSixteenthT     SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxPO-perPF)) OF INTEGER (0..71679)
}                                                                                  OPTIONAL  -- Need R
    ]]
}

PEI-Config-r17 ::=                        SEQUENCE {
    po-NumPerPEI-r17                          ENUMERATED {po1, po2, po4, po8},
    payloadSizeDCI-2-7-r17                    INTEGER (1..maxDCI-2-7-Size-r17),
    pei-FrameOffset-r17                       INTEGER (0..16),
    subgroupConfig-r17                        SubgroupConfig-r17,
    lastUsedCellOnly-r17                      ENUMERATED {true}                                                OPTIONAL,  -- Need R
    ...
}

SubgroupConfig-r17 ::=     SEQUENCE {
    subgroupsNumPerPO-r17      INTEGER (1.. maxNrofPagingSubgroups-r17),
    subgroupsNumForUEID-r17    INTEGER (1.. maxNrofPagingSubgroups-r17)                                        OPTIONAL,  -- Need S
    ...
}

-- TAG-DOWNLINKCONFIGCOMMONSIB-STOP
-- ASN1STOP













–	DownlinkPreemption
The IE DownlinkPreemption is used to configure the UE to monitor PDCCH for the INT-RNTI (interruption).
DownlinkPreemption information element
-- ASN1START
-- TAG-DOWNLINKPREEMPTION-START

DownlinkPreemption ::=              SEQUENCE {
    int-RNTI                            RNTI-Value,
    timeFrequencySet                    ENUMERATED {set0, set1},
    dci-PayloadSize                     INTEGER (0..maxINT-DCI-PayloadSize),
    int-ConfigurationPerServingCell     SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxNrofServingCells)) OF INT-ConfigurationPerServingCell,
    ...
}

INT-ConfigurationPerServingCell ::= SEQUENCE {
    servingCellId                       ServCellIndex,
    positionInDCI                       INTEGER (0..maxINT-DCI-PayloadSize-1)
}

-- TAG-DOWNLINKPREEMPTION-STOP
-- ASN1STOP





–	DRB-Identity
The IE DRB-Identity is used to identify a DRB used by a UE.
DRB-Identity information element
-- ASN1START
-- TAG-DRB-IDENTITY-START

DRB-Identity ::=                    INTEGER (1..32)

-- TAG-DRB-IDENTITY-STOP
-- ASN1STOP

–	DRX-Config
The IE DRX-Config is used to configure DRX related parameters.
DRX-Config information element
-- ASN1START
-- TAG-DRX-CONFIG-START

DRX-Config ::=                      SEQUENCE {
    drx-onDurationTimer                 CHOICE {
                                            subMilliSeconds INTEGER (1..31),
                                            milliSeconds    ENUMERATED {
                                                ms1, ms2, ms3, ms4, ms5, ms6, ms8, ms10, ms20, ms30, ms40, ms50, ms60,
                                                ms80, ms100, ms200, ms300, ms400, ms500, ms600, ms800, ms1000, ms1200,
                                                ms1600, spare8, spare7, spare6, spare5, spare4, spare3, spare2, spare1 }
                                            },
    drx-InactivityTimer                 ENUMERATED {
                                            ms0, ms1, ms2, ms3, ms4, ms5, ms6, ms8, ms10, ms20, ms30, ms40, ms50, ms60, ms80,
                                            ms100, ms200, ms300, ms500, ms750, ms1280, ms1920, ms2560, spare9, spare8,
                                            spare7, spare6, spare5, spare4, spare3, spare2, spare1},
    drx-HARQ-RTT-TimerDL                INTEGER (0..56),
    drx-HARQ-RTT-TimerUL                INTEGER (0..56),
    drx-RetransmissionTimerDL           ENUMERATED {
                                            sl0, sl1, sl2, sl4, sl6, sl8, sl16, sl24, sl33, sl40, sl64, sl80, sl96, sl112, sl128,
                                            sl160, sl320, spare15, spare14, spare13, spare12, spare11, spare10, spare9,
                                            spare8, spare7, spare6, spare5, spare4, spare3, spare2, spare1},
    drx-RetransmissionTimerUL           ENUMERATED {
                                            sl0, sl1, sl2, sl4, sl6, sl8, sl16, sl24, sl33, sl40, sl64, sl80, sl96, sl112, sl128,
                                            sl160, sl320, spare15, spare14, spare13, spare12, spare11, spare10, spare9,
                                            spare8, spare7, spare6, spare5, spare4, spare3, spare2, spare1 },
    drx-LongCycleStartOffset            CHOICE {
        ms10                                INTEGER(0..9),
        ms20                                INTEGER(0..19),
        ms32                                INTEGER(0..31),
        ms40                                INTEGER(0..39),
        ms60                                INTEGER(0..59),
        ms64                                INTEGER(0..63),
        ms70                                INTEGER(0..69),
        ms80                                INTEGER(0..79),
        ms128                               INTEGER(0..127),
        ms160                               INTEGER(0..159),
        ms256                               INTEGER(0..255),
        ms320                               INTEGER(0..319),
        ms512                               INTEGER(0..511),
        ms640                               INTEGER(0..639),
        ms1024                              INTEGER(0..1023),
        ms1280                              INTEGER(0..1279),
        ms2048                              INTEGER(0..2047),
        ms2560                              INTEGER(0..2559),
        ms5120                              INTEGER(0..5119),
        ms10240                             INTEGER(0..10239)
    },
    shortDRX                            SEQUENCE {
        drx-ShortCycle                      ENUMERATED  {
                                                ms2, ms3, ms4, ms5, ms6, ms7, ms8, ms10, ms14, ms16, ms20, ms30, ms32,
                                                ms35, ms40, ms64, ms80, ms128, ms160, ms256, ms320, ms512, ms640, spare9,
                                                spare8, spare7, spare6, spare5, spare4, spare3, spare2, spare1 },
        drx-ShortCycleTimer                 INTEGER (1..16)
    }                                                                                                           OPTIONAL,   -- Need R
    drx-SlotOffset                      INTEGER (0..31)
}

DRX-ConfigExt-v1700 ::=                 SEQUENCE {
    drx-HARQ-RTT-TimerDL-r17                INTEGER (0..448),
    drx-HARQ-RTT-TimerUL-r17                INTEGER (0..448)
}

DRX-ConfigExt2-v1800 ::=                SEQUENCE {
    drx-NonIntegerLongCycleStartOffset-r18  CHOICE {
        ms1001over240                           INTEGER(0..3),
        ms25over6                               INTEGER(0..3),
        ms25over3                               INTEGER(0..7),
        ms1001over120                           INTEGER(0..7),
        ms100over9                              INTEGER(0..10),
        ms25over2                               INTEGER(0..11),
        ms40over3                               INTEGER(0..12),
        ms125over9                              INTEGER(0..12),
        ms50over3                               INTEGER(0..15),
        ms1001over60                            INTEGER(0..15),
        ms125over6                              INTEGER(0..19),
        ms200over9                              INTEGER(0..21),
        ms250over9                              INTEGER(0..26),
        ms100over3                              INTEGER(0..32),
        ms1001over30                            INTEGER(0..32),
        ms75over2                               INTEGER(0..36),
        ms125over3                              INTEGER(0..40),
        ms1001over24                            INTEGER(0..40),
        ms200over3                              INTEGER(0..65),
        ms1001over15                            INTEGER(0..65),
        ms250over3                              INTEGER(0..82),
        ms1001over12                            INTEGER(0..82),
        ms400over3                              INTEGER(0..132),
        ...
    },
    shortDRX-r18                            SEQUENCE {
        drx-NonIntegerShortCycle-r18            ENUMERATED {ms1001over240, ms25over6, ms25over3, ms1001over120, ms100over9, ms25over2,
                                                            ms40over3, ms125over9, ms50over3, ms1001over60, ms125over6, ms200over9,
                                                            ms100over3, ms1001over30, ms125over3, ms1001over24, ms200over3, spare15,
                                                            spare14, spare13, spare12, spare11, spare10, spare9, spare8, spare7, spare6,
                                                                   spare5, spare4, spare3, spare2, spare1},
        drx-ShortCycleTimer-r18                 INTEGER (1..16)
    }                                                                                                            OPTIONAL,   -- Need R
    drx-TimeReferenceSFN-r18                    ENUMERATED {sfn512}                                              OPTIONAL    -- Need N
}

-- TAG-DRX-CONFIG-STOP
-- ASN1STOP



–	DRX-ConfigSecondaryGroup
The IE DRX-ConfigSecondaryGroup is used to configure DRX related parameters for the second DRX group as specified in TS 38.321 [3].
DRX-ConfigSecondaryGroup information element
-- ASN1START
-- TAG-DRX-CONFIGSECONDARYGROUP-START

DRX-ConfigSecondaryGroup-r16 ::=   SEQUENCE {
    drx-onDurationTimer-r16            CHOICE {
                                           subMilliSeconds INTEGER (1..31),
                                           milliSeconds    ENUMERATED {
                                               ms1, ms2, ms3, ms4, ms5, ms6, ms8, ms10, ms20, ms30, ms40, ms50, ms60,
                                               ms80, ms100, ms200, ms300, ms400, ms500, ms600, ms800, ms1000, ms1200,
                                               ms1600, spare8, spare7, spare6, spare5, spare4, spare3, spare2, spare1 }
                                            },
    drx-InactivityTimer-r16            ENUMERATED {
                                           ms0, ms1, ms2, ms3, ms4, ms5, ms6, ms8, ms10, ms20, ms30, ms40, ms50, ms60, ms80,
                                           ms100, ms200, ms300, ms500, ms750, ms1280, ms1920, ms2560, spare9, spare8,
                                           spare7, spare6, spare5, spare4, spare3, spare2, spare1}
}

-- TAG-DRX-CONFIGSECONDARYGROUP-STOP
-- ASN1STOP



–	DRX-ConfigSL
The IE DRX-ConfigSL is used to configure additional DRX parameters for the UE performing sidelink operation with resource allocation mode 1, as specified in TS 38.321 [3].
DRX-ConfigSL information element
-- ASN1START
-- TAG-DRX-CONFIGSL-START

DRX-ConfigSL-r17 ::=            SEQUENCE {
    drx-HARQ-RTT-TimerSL-r17        INTEGER (0..56),
    drx-RetransmissionTimerSL-r17   ENUMERATED {sl0, sl1, sl2, sl4, sl6, sl8, sl16, sl24, sl33, sl40, sl64, sl80, sl96, sl112, sl128,
                                                sl160, sl320, spare15, spare14, spare13, spare12, spare11, spare10, spare9, spare8,
                                                spare7, spare6, spare5, spare4, spare3, spare2, spare1}
}

-- TAG-DRX-CONFIGSL-STOP
-- ASN1STOP



–	EarlyUL-SyncConfig
The IE EarlyUL-SyncConfig is used to configure random access resources for the early UL synchronization procedure.
EarlyUL-SyncConfig information element
-- ASN1START
-- TAG-EARLYUL-SYNCCONFIG-START

EarlyUL-SyncConfig-r18 ::=         SEQUENCE {
    frequencyInfoUL-r18                FrequencyInfoUL,
    rach-ConfigGeneric-r18             RACH-ConfigGeneric,
    bwp-GenericParameters-r18          BWP,
    ssb-PerRACH-Occasion-r18           ENUMERATED {oneEighth, oneFourth, oneHalf, one, two, four, eight, sixteen} OPTIONAL, -- Need R
    prach-RootSequenceIndex-r18        CHOICE {
        l839                               INTEGER (0..837),
        l139                               INTEGER (0..137)
    }                                                                                                             OPTIONAL, -- Need R
    ltm-PRACH-SubcarrierSpacing-r18    SubcarrierSpacing                                                          OPTIONAL, -- Cond L139
    n-TimingAdvanceOffset-r18          ENUMERATED { n0, n25600, n39936, spare1 }                                  OPTIONAL, -- Need R
    ...,
    [[
    ltm-tdd-UL-DL-ConfigurationCommon-r18 TDD-UL-DL-ConfigCommon                                                  OPTIONAL, -- Cond TDD
    ltm-restrictedSetConfig-r18        ENUMERATED {unrestrictedSet, restrictedSetTypeA, restrictedSetTypeB}       OPTIONAL  -- Need R
    ]]
}

-- TAG-EARLYUL-SYNCCONFIG-STOP
-- ASN1STOP





–	EphemerisInfo
The IE EphemerisInfo provides satellite ephemeris. Ephemeris may be expressed either in format of position and velocity state vector in ECEF or in format of orbital parameters in ECI. Note: The ECI and ECEF coincide at epochTime, i.e., x,y,z axis in ECEF are aligned with x,y,z axis in ECI at epochTime.
EphemerisInfo information element
-- ASN1START
-- TAG-EPHEMERISINFO-START

EphemerisInfo-r17 ::=          CHOICE {
    positionVelocity-r17           PositionVelocity-r17,
    orbital-r17                    Orbital-r17
}

PositionVelocity-r17 ::=       SEQUENCE {
    positionX-r17                  PositionStateVector-r17,
    positionY-r17                  PositionStateVector-r17,
    positionZ-r17                  PositionStateVector-r17,
    velocityVX-r17                 VelocityStateVector-r17,
    velocityVY-r17                 VelocityStateVector-r17,
    velocityVZ-r17                 VelocityStateVector-r17
}

Orbital-r17 ::=                SEQUENCE {
    semiMajorAxis-r17              INTEGER (0..8589934591),
    eccentricity-r17               INTEGER (0..1048575),
    periapsis-r17                  INTEGER (0..268435455),
    longitude-r17                  INTEGER (0..268435455),
    inclination-r17                INTEGER (-67108864..67108863),
    meanAnomaly-r17                INTEGER (0..268435455)
}

PositionStateVector-r17 ::= INTEGER (-33554432..33554431)

VelocityStateVector-r17 ::= INTEGER (-131072..131071)

-- TAG-EPHEMERISINFO-STOP
-- ASN1STOP



–	EpochTime
The IE EpochTime is used to indicate the epoch time for the NTN assistance information, and it is defined as the starting time of a DL sub-frame, indicated by a SFN and a sub-frame number signaled together with the assistance information. The reference point for EpochTime of the serving or neighbour NTN payload ephemeris and Common TA parameters is the uplink time synchronization reference point of the serving cell when this field is provided in an NTN cell and the gNB when this field is provided in a TN cell. In case of handover or conditional handover, the reference point for EpochTime of the target NTN payload ephemeris and Common TA parameters is the uplink time synchronization reference point of the target cell. In case of handover or conditional handover, EpochTime is based on the timing of the target cell, i.e. the SFN and sub-frame number indicated refers to the SFN and sub-frame of the target cell. Otherwise, EpochTime is used based on the timing of the serving cell, i.e. the SFN and sub-frame number indicated refers to the SFN and sub-frame of the serving cell.
EpochTime information element
-- ASN1START
-- TAG-EPOCHTIME-START

EpochTime-r17 ::=              SEQUENCE {
    sfn-r17                        INTEGER(0..1023),
    subFrameNR-r17                 INTEGER(0..9)
}

-- TAG-EPOCHTIME-STOP
-- ASN1STOP



–	EUTRA-C-RNTI
The IE EUTRA-C-RNTI identifies a UE having a RRC connection within an E-UTRA cell.
EUTRA-C-RNTI information element
-- ASN1START
-- TAG-EUTRACRNTI-START

EUTRA-C-RNTI ::=                      BIT STRING (SIZE (16))

-- TAG-EUTRACRNTI-STOP
-- ASN1STOP

–	FeatureCombination
The IE FeatureCombination indicates a feature or a combination of features to be associated with a set of Random Access resources (i.e. an instance of FeatureCombinationPreambles).
FeatureCombination information element
-- ASN1START
-- TAG-FEATURECOMBINATION-START

FeatureCombination-r17 ::= SEQUENCE {
    redCap-r17                 ENUMERATED {true}                                    OPTIONAL,  -- Need R
    smallData-r17              ENUMERATED {true}                                    OPTIONAL,  -- Need R
    nsag-r17                   NSAG-List-r17                                        OPTIONAL,  -- Need R
    msg3-Repetitions-r17       ENUMERATED {true}                                    OPTIONAL,  -- Need R
    msg1-Repetitions-r18       ENUMERATED {true}                                    OPTIONAL,  -- Need R
    eRedCap-r18                ENUMERATED {true}                                    OPTIONAL,  -- Need R
    spare2                     ENUMERATED {true}                                    OPTIONAL,  -- Need R
    spare1                     ENUMERATED {true}                                    OPTIONAL   -- Need R
}

NSAG-List-r17 ::= SEQUENCE (SIZE (1.. maxSliceInfo-r17)) OF NSAG-ID-r17

-- TAG-FEATURECOMBINATION-STOP
-- ASN1STOP



–	FeatureCombinationPreambles
The IE FeatureCombinationPreambles associates a set of preambles with a feature combination. For parameters which can be provided in this IE, the UE applies this field value when performing Random Access using a preamble in this featureCombinationPreambles, otherwise the UE applies the corresponding value as determined by applicable Need Code, e.g. Need S. On a specific BWP, there can be at most one set of preambles associated with a given feature combination per RA Type (i.e. 4-step RACH or 2-step RACH) per MSG1 repetition number.
FeatureCombinationPreambles information element
-- ASN1START
-- TAG-FEATURECOMBINATIONPREAMBLES-START

FeatureCombinationPreambles-r17 ::=   SEQUENCE {
    featureCombination-r17                FeatureCombination-r17,
    startPreambleForThisPartition-r17     INTEGER (0..63),
    numberOfPreamblesPerSSB-ForThisPartition-r17 INTEGER (1..64),
    ssb-SharedRO-MaskIndex-r17            INTEGER (1..15)                                           OPTIONAL, -- Need S
    groupBconfigured-r17                  SEQUENCE {
        ra-SizeGroupA-r17                     ENUMERATED {b56, b144, b208, b256, b282, b480, b640,
                                                        b800, b1000, b72, spare6, spare5,spare4, spare3, spare2, spare1},
        messagePowerOffsetGroupB-r17          ENUMERATED { minusinfinity, dB0, dB5, dB8, dB10, dB12, dB15, dB18},
        numberOfRA-PreamblesGroupA-r17        INTEGER (1..64)
    }                                                                                               OPTIONAL, -- Need R
    separateMsgA-PUSCH-Config-r17         MsgA-PUSCH-Config-r16                                     OPTIONAL, -- Cond MsgAConfigCommon
    msgA-RSRP-Threshold-r17               RSRP-Range                                                OPTIONAL, -- Need R
    rsrp-ThresholdSSB-r17                 RSRP-Range                                                OPTIONAL, -- Need R
    deltaPreamble-r17                     INTEGER (-1..6)                                           OPTIONAL, -- Need R
    ...,
    [[
    msg1-RepetitionNum-r18                ENUMERATED {n2, n4, n8, spare1}                                   OPTIONAL, -- Cond Msg1Rep2
    msg1-RepetitionTimeOffsetROGroup-r18  ENUMERATED {n4, n8, n16, spare1}                             OPTIONAL  -- Cond Msg1Rep3
    ]]
}

-- TAG-FEATURECOMBINATIONPREAMBLES-STOP
-- ASN1STOP





–	FilterCoefficient
The IE FilterCoefficient specifies the measurement filtering coefficient. Value fc0 corresponds to k = 0, fc1 corresponds to k = 1, and so on.
FilterCoefficient information element
-- ASN1START
-- TAG-FILTERCOEFFICIENT-START

FilterCoefficient ::=       ENUMERATED { fc0, fc1, fc2, fc3, fc4, fc5, fc6, fc7, fc8, fc9, fc11, fc13, fc15, fc17, fc19, spare1, ...}

-- TAG-FILTERCOEFFICIENT-STOP
-- ASN1STOP


–	FreqBandIndicatorNR
The IE FreqBandIndicatorNR is used to convey an NR frequency band number as defined in TS 38.101-1 [15], TS 38.101-2 [39] and TS 38.101-5 [75].
FreqBandIndicatorNR information element
-- ASN1START
-- TAG-FREQBANDINDICATORNR-START

FreqBandIndicatorNR ::=             INTEGER (1..1024)

-- TAG-FREQBANDINDICATORNR-STOP
-- ASN1STOP

–	FreqPriorityListDedicatedSlicing
The IE FreqPriorityListDedicatedSlicing provides dedicated cell reselection priorities for slicing in RRCRelease.
FreqPriorityListDedicatedSlicing information element
-- ASN1START
-- TAG-FREQPRIORITYLISTDEDICATEDSLICING-START

FreqPriorityListDedicatedSlicing-r17 ::= SEQUENCE (SIZE (1.. maxFreq)) OF FreqPriorityDedicatedSlicing-r17

FreqPriorityDedicatedSlicing-r17 ::=     SEQUENCE {
     dl-ExplicitCarrierFreq-r17               ARFCN-ValueNR,
    sliceInfoListDedicated-r17               SliceInfoListDedicated-r17                                    OPTIONAL  -- Cond Mandatory
}

SliceInfoListDedicated-r17 ::=           SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxSliceInfo-r17)) OF SliceInfoDedicated-r17

SliceInfoDedicated-r17 ::=               SEQUENCE {
    nsag-IdentityInfo-r17                    NSAG-IdentityInfo-r17,
    nsag-CellReselectionPriority-r17         CellReselectionPriority                                       OPTIONAL,  -- Need R
    nsag-CellReselectionSubPriority-r17      CellReselectionSubPriority                                    OPTIONAL   -- Need R
}

-- TAG-FREQPRIORITYLISTDEDICATEDSLICING-STOP
-- ASN1STOP





–	FreqPriorityListSlicing
The IE FreqPriorityListSlicing indicates cell reselection priorities for slicing in SIB16.
FreqPriorityListSlicing information element
-- ASN1START
-- TAG-FREQPRIORITYLISTSLICING-START

FreqPriorityListSlicing-r17 ::= SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxFreqPlus1)) OF FreqPrioritySlicing-r17

FreqPrioritySlicing-r17 ::=     SEQUENCE {
     dl-ImplicitCarrierFreq-r17            INTEGER (0..maxFreq),
    sliceInfoList-r17                     SliceInfoList-r17                                               OPTIONAL  -- Cond Mandatory
}

SliceInfoList-r17 ::=             SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxSliceInfo-r17)) OF SliceInfo-r17

SliceInfo-r17 ::=                 SEQUENCE {
    nsag-IdentityInfo-r17             NSAG-IdentityInfo-r17,
    nsag-CellReselectionPriority-r17  CellReselectionPriority                                             OPTIONAL,  -- Need R
    nsag-CellReselectionSubPriority-r17 CellReselectionSubPriority                                        OPTIONAL,  -- Need R
    sliceCellListNR-r17               CHOICE {
        sliceAllowedCellListNR-r17        SliceCellListNR-r17,
        sliceExcludedCellListNR-r17       SliceCellListNR-r17
    }                                                                                                     OPTIONAL  -- Need R
}

SliceCellListNR-r17 ::=           SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxCellSlice-r17)) OF PCI-Range

-- TAG-FREQPRIORITYLISTSLICING-STOP
-- ASN1STOP







–	FrequencyInfoDL
The IE FrequencyInfoDL provides basic parameters of a downlink carrier and transmission thereon.
FrequencyInfoDL information element
-- ASN1START
-- TAG-FREQUENCYINFODL-START

FrequencyInfoDL ::=                 SEQUENCE {
    absoluteFrequencySSB                ARFCN-ValueNR                                                   OPTIONAL,   -- Cond SpCellAdd
    frequencyBandList                   MultiFrequencyBandListNR,
    absoluteFrequencyPointA             ARFCN-ValueNR,
    scs-SpecificCarrierList             SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxSCSs)) OF SCS-SpecificCarrier,
    ...,
    [[
    referenceCell-r18                   ServCellIndex                                                   OPTIONAL    -- Cond SSBlessSCell
    ]]
}

-- TAG-FREQUENCYINFODL-STOP
-- ASN1STOP





–	FrequencyInfoDL-SIB
The IE FrequencyInfoDL-SIB provides basic parameters of a downlink carrier and transmission thereon.
FrequencyInfoDL-SIB information element
-- ASN1START
-- TAG-FREQUENCYINFODL-SIB-START

FrequencyInfoDL-SIB ::=             SEQUENCE {
    frequencyBandList                   MultiFrequencyBandListNR-SIB,
    offsetToPointA                      INTEGER (0..2199),
    scs-SpecificCarrierList             SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxSCSs)) OF SCS-SpecificCarrier
}

FrequencyInfoDL-SIB-v1760 ::=       SEQUENCE {
    frequencyBandList-v1760             MultiFrequencyBandListNR-SIB-v1760
}

FrequencyInfoDL-SIB-v1800 ::=       SEQUENCE {
    frequencyBandListAerial-r18         MultiFrequencyBandListNR-Aerial-SIB-r18
}

-- TAG-FREQUENCYINFODL-SIB-STOP
-- ASN1STOP



–	FrequencyInfoUL
The IE FrequencyInfoUL provides basic parameters of an uplink carrier and transmission thereon.
FrequencyInfoUL information element
-- ASN1START
-- TAG-FREQUENCYINFOUL-START

FrequencyInfoUL ::=                 SEQUENCE {
    frequencyBandList                   MultiFrequencyBandListNR                                OPTIONAL,   -- Cond FDD-OrSUL-OrEarlyUL-Sync
    absoluteFrequencyPointA             ARFCN-ValueNR                                           OPTIONAL,   -- Cond FDD-OrSUL-OrEarlyUL-Sync
    scs-SpecificCarrierList             SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxSCSs)) OF SCS-SpecificCarrier,
    additionalSpectrumEmission          AdditionalSpectrumEmission                              OPTIONAL,   -- Need S
    p-Max                               P-Max                                                   OPTIONAL,   -- Need S
    frequencyShift7p5khz                ENUMERATED {true}                                       OPTIONAL,   -- Cond FDD-TDD-OrSUL-Optional
    ...,
    [[
    additionalSpectrumEmission-v1760    AdditionalSpectrumEmission-v1760                        OPTIONAL    -- Need S
    ]],
    [[
    additionalSpectrumEmissionAerial-r18   AdditionalSpectrumEmission-r18                       OPTIONAL   -- Need S
    ]]
}

-- TAG-FREQUENCYINFOUL-STOP
-- ASN1STOP





–	FrequencyInfoUL-SIB
The IE FrequencyInfoUL-SIB provides basic parameters of an uplink carrier and transmission thereon.
FrequencyInfoUL-SIB information element
-- ASN1START
-- TAG-FREQUENCYINFOUL-SIB-START

FrequencyInfoUL-SIB ::=             SEQUENCE {
    frequencyBandList                   MultiFrequencyBandListNR-SIB                            OPTIONAL,   -- Cond FDD-OrSUL
    absoluteFrequencyPointA             ARFCN-ValueNR                                           OPTIONAL,   -- Cond FDD-OrSUL
    scs-SpecificCarrierList             SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxSCSs)) OF SCS-SpecificCarrier,
    p-Max                               P-Max                                                   OPTIONAL,   -- Need S
    frequencyShift7p5khz                ENUMERATED {true}                                       OPTIONAL,   -- Cond FDD-TDD-OrSUL-Optional
    ...,
    [[
    frequencyBandListAerial-r18         MultiFrequencyBandListNR-Aerial-SIB-r18                 OPTIONAL    -- Need S
    ]]
}

FrequencyInfoUL-SIB-v1760 ::=       SEQUENCE {
    frequencyBandList-v1760             MultiFrequencyBandListNR-SIB-v1760
}

-- TAG-FREQUENCYINFOUL-SIB-STOP
-- ASN1STOP





–	GapPriority
The IE GapPriority is used to identify the priority of a gap configuration.
GapPriority information element
-- ASN1START
-- TAG-GAPPRIORITY-START

GapPriority-r17 ::=                       INTEGER (1..maxNrOfGapPri-r17)

-- TAG-GAPPRIORITY-STOP
-- ASN1STOP

–	HighSpeedConfig
The IE HighSpeedConfig is used to configure parameters for high speed scenarios.
HighSpeedConfig information element
-- ASN1START
-- TAG-HIGHSPEEDCONFIG-START

HighSpeedConfig-r16 ::=  SEQUENCE {
    highSpeedMeasFlag-r16    ENUMERATED {true}        OPTIONAL,   -- Cond SpCellOnly
    highSpeedDemodFlag-r16   ENUMERATED {true}        OPTIONAL,   -- Need R
    ...
}

HighSpeedConfig-v1700 ::=  SEQUENCE {
    highSpeedMeasCA-Scell-r17    ENUMERATED {true}        OPTIONAL,   -- Cond SCellOnly
    highSpeedMeasInterFreq-r17   ENUMERATED {true}        OPTIONAL,   -- Cond SpCellOnly2
    highSpeedDemodCA-Scell-r17   ENUMERATED {true}        OPTIONAL,   -- Need R
    ...
}

HighSpeedConfigFR2-r17 ::=  SEQUENCE {
    highSpeedMeasFlagFR2-r17                    ENUMERATED {set1, set2}                       OPTIONAL,   -- Need R
    highSpeedDeploymentTypeFR2-r17              ENUMERATED {unidirectional, bidirectional}    OPTIONAL,   -- Need R
    highSpeedLargeOneStepUL-TimingFR2-r17       ENUMERATED {true}                             OPTIONAL,   -- Need R
    ...
}

-- TAG-HIGHSPEEDCONFIG-STOP
-- ASN1STOP





–	Hysteresis
The IE Hysteresis is a parameter used within the entry and leave condition of an event triggered reporting condition. The actual value is field value * 0.5 dB.
Hysteresis information element
-- ASN1START
-- TAG-HYSTERESIS-START

Hysteresis ::=                      INTEGER (0..30)

-- TAG-HYSTERESIS-STOP
-- ASN1STOP

–	HysteresisAltitude
The IE HysteresisAltitude is a parameter used within the entry and leave condition of an altitude-based event triggered reporting condition and within altitude range based parameter configuration. The actual value is field value in meters.
HysteresisAltitude information element
-- ASN1START
-- TAG-HYSTERESISALTITUDE-START

HysteresisAltitude-r18 ::=                      INTEGER (0..64)

-- TAG-HYSTERESISALTITUDE-STOP
-- ASN1STOP

–	HysteresisLocation
The IE HysteresisLocation is a parameter used within entry and leave condition of a location based event triggered reporting condition. The actual value is field value * 10 meters.
HysteresisLocation information element
-- ASN1START
-- TAG-HYSTERESISLOCATION-START

HysteresisLocation-r17 ::=          INTEGER (0..32768)

-- TAG-HYSTERESISLOCATION-STOP
-- ASN1STOP

–	InvalidSymbolPattern
The IE InvalidSymbolPattern is used to configure one invalid symbol pattern for PUSCH transmission repetition type B applicable for both DCI format 0_1 and 0_2, see TS 38.214 [19], clause 6.1.
InvalidSymbolPattern information element
-- ASN1START
-- TAG-INVALIDSYMBOLPATTERN-START

InvalidSymbolPattern-r16 ::=     SEQUENCE {
    symbols-r16                      CHOICE {
        oneSlot                          BIT STRING (SIZE (14)),
        twoSlots                         BIT STRING (SIZE (28))
    },
    periodicityAndPattern-r16        CHOICE {
        n2                               BIT STRING (SIZE (2)),
        n4                               BIT STRING (SIZE (4)),
        n5                               BIT STRING (SIZE (5)),
        n8                               BIT STRING (SIZE (8)),
        n10                              BIT STRING (SIZE (10)),
        n20                              BIT STRING (SIZE (20)),
        n40                              BIT STRING (SIZE (40))
    }                                                                OPTIONAL,   -- Need M
    ...
}

-- TAG-INVALIDSYMBOLPATTERN-STOP
-- ASN1STOP



–	I-RNTI-Value
The IE I-RNTI-Value is used to identify the suspended UE context of a UE in RRC_INACTIVE.
I-RNTI-Value information element
-- ASN1START
-- TAG-I-RNTI-VALUE-START

I-RNTI-Value ::=                        BIT STRING (SIZE(40))

-- TAG-I-RNTI-VALUE-STOP
-- ASN1STOP

–	LBT-FailureRecoveryConfig
The IE LBT-FailureRecoveryConfig-r16 is used to configure the parameters used for detection of consistent uplink LBT failures for operation with shared spectrum channel access, as specified in TS 38.321 [3].
LBT-FailureRecoveryConfig information element
-- ASN1START
-- TAG-LBT-FAILURERECOVERYCONFIG-START

LBT-FailureRecoveryConfig-r16 ::=    SEQUENCE {
    lbt-FailureInstanceMaxCount-r16      ENUMERATED {n4, n8, n16, n32, n64, n128},
    lbt-FailureDetectionTimer-r16        ENUMERATED {ms10, ms20, ms40, ms80, ms160, ms320},
    ...
}

-- TAG-LBT-FAILURERECOVERYCONFIG-STOP
-- ASN1STOP



–	LocationInfo
The IE LocationInfo is used to transfer available detailed location information, Bluetooth, WLAN and sensor available measurement results at the UE.
LocationInfo information element
-- ASN1START
-- TAG-LOCATIONINFO-START

LocationInfo-r16 ::=      SEQUENCE {
    commonLocationInfo-r16    CommonLocationInfo-r16          OPTIONAL,
    bt-LocationInfo-r16       LogMeasResultListBT-r16         OPTIONAL,
    wlan-LocationInfo-r16     LogMeasResultListWLAN-r16       OPTIONAL,
    sensor-LocationInfo-r16   Sensor-LocationInfo-r16         OPTIONAL,
    ...
}

-- TAG-LOCATIONINFO-STOP
-- ASN1STOP

–	LocationMeasurementInfo
The IE LocationMeasurementInfo defines the information sent by the UE to the network to assist with the configuration of measurement gaps for location related measurements.
LocationMeasurementInfo information element
-- ASN1START
-- TAG-LOCATIONMEASUREMENTINFO-START

LocationMeasurementInfo ::=     CHOICE {
    eutra-RSTD                  EUTRA-RSTD-InfoList,
    ...,
    eutra-FineTimingDetection   NULL,
    nr-PRS-Measurement-r16      NR-PRS-MeasurementInfoList-r16
}

EUTRA-RSTD-InfoList ::= SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxInterRAT-RSTD-Freq)) OF EUTRA-RSTD-Info

EUTRA-RSTD-Info ::= SEQUENCE {
    carrierFreq                 ARFCN-ValueEUTRA,
    measPRS-Offset              INTEGER (0..39),
    ...
}

NR-PRS-MeasurementInfoList-r16 ::= SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxFreqLayers)) OF NR-PRS-MeasurementInfo-r16

NR-PRS-MeasurementInfo-r16 ::=      SEQUENCE {
    dl-PRS-PointA-r16                   ARFCN-ValueNR,
    nr-MeasPRS-RepetitionAndOffset-r16  CHOICE {
        ms20-r16                            INTEGER (0..19),
        ms40-r16                            INTEGER (0..39),
        ms80-r16                            INTEGER (0..79),
        ms160-r16                           INTEGER (0..159),
        ...
    },
    nr-MeasPRS-length-r16               ENUMERATED {ms1dot5, ms3, ms3dot5, ms4, ms5dot5, ms6, ms10, ms20},
    ...
}

-- TAG-LOCATIONMEASUREMENTINFO-STOP
-- ASN1STOP



–	LogicalChannelConfig
The IE LogicalChannelConfig is used to configure the logical channel parameters.
LogicalChannelConfig information element
-- ASN1START
-- TAG-LOGICALCHANNELCONFIG-START

LogicalChannelConfig ::=            SEQUENCE {
    ul-SpecificParameters               SEQUENCE {
        priority                            INTEGER (1..16),
        prioritisedBitRate                  ENUMERATED {kBps0, kBps8, kBps16, kBps32, kBps64, kBps128, kBps256, kBps512,
                                            kBps1024, kBps2048, kBps4096, kBps8192, kBps16384, kBps32768, kBps65536, infinity},
        bucketSizeDuration                  ENUMERATED {ms5, ms10, ms20, ms50, ms100, ms150, ms300, ms500, ms1000,
                                                            spare7, spare6, spare5, spare4, spare3,spare2, spare1},
        allowedServingCells                 SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxNrofServingCells-1)) OF ServCellIndex
                                                                                                            OPTIONAL,   -- Cond PDCP-CADuplication
        allowedSCS-List                     SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxSCSs)) OF SubcarrierSpacing                   OPTIONAL,   -- Need R
        maxPUSCH-Duration                   ENUMERATED {ms0p02, ms0p04, ms0p0625, ms0p125, ms0p25, ms0p5, ms0p01-v1700, spare1}
                                                                                                                OPTIONAL,   -- Need R
        configuredGrantType1Allowed         ENUMERATED {true}                                                   OPTIONAL,   -- Need R
        logicalChannelGroup                 INTEGER (0..maxLCG-ID)                                              OPTIONAL,   -- Need R
        schedulingRequestID                 SchedulingRequestId                                                 OPTIONAL,   -- Need R
        logicalChannelSR-Mask               BOOLEAN,
        logicalChannelSR-DelayTimerApplied  BOOLEAN,
        ...,
        bitRateQueryProhibitTimer       ENUMERATED {s0, s0dot4, s0dot8, s1dot6, s3, s6, s12, s30}               OPTIONAL,    -- Need R
        [[
        allowedCG-List-r16                  SEQUENCE (SIZE (0.. maxNrofConfiguredGrantConfigMAC-1-r16)) OF ConfiguredGrantConfigIndexMAC-r16
                                                                                                                OPTIONAL,   -- Need S
        allowedPHY-PriorityIndex-r16        ENUMERATED {p0, p1}                                                 OPTIONAL    -- Need S
        ]],
        [[
        logicalChannelGroupIAB-Ext-r17      INTEGER (0..maxLCG-ID-IAB-r17)                                      OPTIONAL,   -- Need R
        allowedHARQ-mode-r17                ENUMERATED {harqModeA, harqModeB}                                   OPTIONAL    -- Need R
        ]]
    }                                                                                                       OPTIONAL,   -- Cond UL
    ...,
    [[
    channelAccessPriority-r16           INTEGER (1..4)                                                      OPTIONAL,   -- Need R
    bitRateMultiplier-r16               ENUMERATED {x40, x70, x100, x200}                                   OPTIONAL    -- Need R
    ]]
}

-- TAG-LOGICALCHANNELCONFIG-STOP
-- ASN1STOP





–	LogicalChannelIdentity
The IE LogicalChannelIdentity is used to identify one logical channel (LogicalChannelConfig) and the corresponding RLC bearer (RLC-BearerConfig) or BH RLC channel (BH-RLC-ChannelConfig) or Uu Relay RLC channel (Uu-RelayRLC-ChannelConfig) or PC5 Relay RLC channel (SL-RLC-ChannelConfigPC5).
LogicalChannelIdentity information element
-- ASN1START
-- TAG-LOGICALCHANNELIDENTITY-START

LogicalChannelIdentity ::=          INTEGER (1..maxLC-ID)

-- TAG-LOGICALCHANNELIDENTITY-STOP
-- ASN1STOP

–	LTE-NeighCellsCRS-AssistInfoList
The IE LTE-NeighCellsCRS-AssistInfoList-r17 is used to provide configuration information of neighbour LTE cells to assist the UE to perform CRS interference mitigation (CRS-IM) in scenarios with overlapping spectrum for LTE and NR.
LTE-NeighCellsCRS-AssistInfoList information element
-- ASN1START
-- TAG-LTE-NEIGHCELLSCRS-ASSISTINFOLIST-START

LTE-NeighCellsCRS-AssistInfoList-r17 ::= SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxNrofCRS-IM-InterfCell-r17)) OF LTE-NeighCellsCRS-AssistInfo-r17

LTE-NeighCellsCRS-AssistInfo-r17 ::=     SEQUENCE {
    neighCarrierBandwidthDL-r17              ENUMERATED {n6, n15, n25, n50, n75, n100, spare2, spare1}   OPTIONAL,   -- Cond CRS-IM
    neighCarrierFreqDL-r17                   INTEGER (0..16383)                                          OPTIONAL,   -- Need S
    neighCellId-r17                          EUTRA-PhysCellId                                            OPTIONAL,   -- Need S
    neighCRS-muting-r17                      ENUMERATED {enabled}                                        OPTIONAL,   -- Need R
    neighMBSFN-SubframeConfigList-r17        EUTRA-MBSFN-SubframeConfigList                              OPTIONAL,   -- Need S
    neighNrofCRS-Ports-r17                   ENUMERATED {n1, n2, n4}                                     OPTIONAL,   -- Need S
    neighV-Shift-r17                         ENUMERATED {n0, n1, n2, n3, n4, n5}                         OPTIONAL    -- Cond NotCellID
}

-- TAG-LTE-NEIGHCELLSCRS-ASSISTINFOLIST-STOP
-- ASN1STOP





–	LTM-CandidateId
The IE LTM-CandidateId is used to identify an LTM candidate configuration.
LTM-CandidateId information element
-- ASN1START
-- TAG-LTM-CANDIDATEID-START

LTM-CandidateId-r18 ::=                             INTEGER (1..maxNrofLTM-Configs-r18)

-- TAG-LTM-CANDIDATEID-STOP
-- ASN1STOP

–	LTM-Candidate
The IE LTM-Candidate concerns a LTM candidate configuration to add or modify.
LTM-Candidate information element
-- ASN1START
-- TAG-LTM-CANDIDATE-START

LTM-Candidate-r18 ::=     SEQUENCE {
    ltm-CandidateId-r18                            LTM-CandidateId-r18,
    ltm-CandidatePCI-r18                           PhysCellId                                            OPTIONAL,    -- Need M
    ltm-SSB-Config-r18                             LTM-SSB-Config-r18                                    OPTIONAL,    -- Need M
    ltm-CandidateConfig-r18                        OCTET STRING (CONTAINING RRCReconfiguration)          OPTIONAL,    -- Need M
    ltm-ConfigComplete-r18                         ENUMERATED {true}                                     OPTIONAL,    -- Need R
    ltm-EarlyUL-SyncConfig-r18                     OCTET STRING (CONTAINING EarlyUL-SyncConfig-r18)      OPTIONAL,    -- Need R
    ltm-EarlyUL-SyncConfigSUL-r18                  OCTET STRING (CONTAINING EarlyUL-SyncConfig-r18)      OPTIONAL,    -- Need R
    ltm-TCI-Info-r18                               LTM-TCI-Info-r18                                      OPTIONAL,    -- Need M
    ltm-NoResetID-r18                              INTEGER (1..maxNrofLTM-Configs-plus1-r18)             OPTIONAL,    -- Need M
    ltm-UE-MeasuredTA-ID-r18                       INTEGER (1..maxNrofLTM-Configs-plus1-r18)             OPTIONAL,    -- Need M
    ...
}

LTM-SSB-Config-r18 ::= SEQUENCE {
    ssb-Frequency-r18                              ARFCN-ValueNR,
    subcarrierSpacing-r18                          SubcarrierSpacing,
    ssb-Periodicity-r18                            ENUMERATED {ms5, ms10, ms20, ms40, ms80, ms160, spare2, spare1} OPTIONAL,   -- Need S
    ssb-PositionsInBurst-r18                       CHOICE {
        shortBitmap                                    BIT STRING (SIZE (4)),
        mediumBitmap                                   BIT STRING (SIZE (8)),
        longBitmap                                     BIT STRING (SIZE (64))
    }                                                                                                    OPTIONAL,   -- Need R
    ss-PBCH-BlockPower-r18                         INTEGER (-60..50)                                     OPTIONAL,   -- Need R
    ...
}

-- TAG-LTM-CANDIDATE-STOP
-- ASN1STOP





–	LTM-Config
The IE LTM-Config is used to provide LTM configurations.
LTM-Config information element
-- ASN1START
-- TAG-LTM-CONFIG-START

LTM-Config-r18 ::=   SEQUENCE {
    ltm-ReferenceConfiguration-r18        SetupRelease {ReferenceConfiguration-r18}                             OPTIONAL,   -- Need M
    ltm-CandidateToReleaseList-r18        SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxNrofLTM-Configs-r18)) OF LTM-CandidateId-r18    OPTIONAL,   -- Need N
    ltm-CandidateToAddModList-r18         SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxNrofLTM-Configs-r18)) OF LTM-Candidate-r18      OPTIONAL,   -- Need N
    ltm-ServingCellNoResetID-r18          INTEGER (1..maxNrofLTM-Configs-plus1-r18)                             OPTIONAL,   -- Need N
    ltm-CSI-ResourceConfigToAddModList-r18  SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxNrofLTM-CSI-ResourceConfigurations-r18)) OF LTM-CSI-ResourceConfig-r18
                                                                                                                OPTIONAL,   -- Need N
    ltm-CSI-ResourceConfigToReleaseList-r18 SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxNrofLTM-CSI-ResourceConfigurations-r18)) OF LTM-CSI-ResourceConfigId-r18
                                                                                                                OPTIONAL,   -- Need N
    attemptLTM-Switch-r18                 ENUMERATED {true}                                                    OPTIONAL, -- Cond LTM-MCG
    ltm-ServingCellUE-MeasuredTA-ID-r18   INTEGER (1..maxNrofLTM-Configs-plus1-r18)                             OPTIONAL,   -- Need N
    ...
}

-- TAG-LTM-CONFIG-STOP
-- ASN1STOP



–	LTM-CSI-ReportConfig
The IE LTM-CSI-ReportConfig is used to configure report on the cell in which the LTM-CSI-ReportConfig is included.
LTM-CSI-ReportConfig information element
-- ASN1START
-- TAG-LTM-CSI-REPORTCONFIG-START

LTM-CSI-ReportConfig-r18 ::=      SEQUENCE {
    ltm-CSI-ReportConfigId-r18                     LTM-CSI-ReportConfigId-r18,
    ltm-ResourcesForChannelMeasurement-r18         LTM-CSI-ResourceConfigId-r18,
    ltm-ReportConfigType-r18                           CHOICE {
        periodic-r18                                       SEQUENCE {
            reportSlotConfig-r18                               CSI-ReportPeriodicityAndOffset,
            pucch-CSI-ResourceList-r18                         SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxNrofBWPs)) OF PUCCH-CSI-Resource
        },
        semiPersistentOnPUCCH-r18                          SEQUENCE {
            reportSlotConfig-r18                               CSI-ReportPeriodicityAndOffset,
            pucch-CSI-ResourceList-r18                         SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxNrofBWPs)) OF PUCCH-CSI-Resource
        },
        semiPersistentOnPUSCH-r18                          SEQUENCE {
            reportSlotConfig-r18                               CSI-ReportPeriodicityAndOffset,
            reportSlotOffsetList-r18                           SEQUENCE (SIZE (1.. maxNrofUL-Allocations-r16)) OF INTEGER (0..128),
            reportSlotOffsetListDCI-0-2-r18                    SEQUENCE (SIZE (1.. maxNrofUL-Allocations-r16)) OF INTEGER (0..128),
            reportSlotOffsetListDCI-0-1-r18                    SEQUENCE (SIZE (1.. maxNrofUL-Allocations-r16)) OF INTEGER (0..128),
            p0alpha-r18                                        P0-PUSCH-AlphaSetId
        },
        aperiodic-r18                                      SEQUENCE {
            reportSlotOffsetList-r18                           SEQUENCE (SIZE (1.. maxNrofUL-Allocations-r16)) OF INTEGER (0..128),
            reportSlotOffsetListDCI-0-2-r18                    SEQUENCE (SIZE (1.. maxNrofUL-Allocations-r16)) OF INTEGER (0..128),
            reportSlotOffsetListDCI-0-1-r18                    SEQUENCE (SIZE (1.. maxNrofUL-Allocations-r16)) OF INTEGER (0..128)
        },
        ...
    },
    ltm-ReportContent-r18                          LTM-ReportContent-r18,
    ...
}

LTM-ReportContent-r18 ::=     SEQUENCE {
    nrOfReportedCells-r18                          ENUMERATED {n1,n2,n3,n4},
    nrOfReportedRS-PerCell-r18                     ENUMERATED {n1,n2,n3,n4},
    spCellInclusion-r18                            ENUMERATED {true}                                          OPTIONAL -- Need R
}

-- TAG-LTM-CSI-REPORTCONFIG-STOP
-- ASN1STOP





–	LTM-CSI-ReportConfigId
The IE LTM-CSI-ReportConfigId is used to identify an LTM-CSI-ReportConfig.
LTM-CSI-ReportConfigId information element
-- ASN1START
-- TAG-LTM-CSI-REPORTCONFIGID-START

LTM-CSI-ReportConfigId-r18 ::=            INTEGER (0..maxNrofLTM-CSI-ReportConfigurations-1-r18)

-- TAG-LTM-CSI-REPORTCONFIGID-STOP
-- ASN1STOP

–	LTM-CSI-ResourceConfig
The IE LTM-CSI-ResourceConfig defines a group of one or more CSI resources for one or more LTM candidate configurations.
LTM-CSI-ResourceConfig information element
-- ASN1START
-- TAG-LTM-CSI-RESOURCECONFIG-START

LTM-CSI-ResourceConfig-r18 ::=      SEQUENCE {
    ltm-CSI-ResourceConfigId-r18        LTM-CSI-ResourceConfigId-r18,
    ltm-CSI-SSB-ResourceSet-r18         LTM-CSI-SSB-ResourceSet-r18,
    ...
}

LTM-CSI-SSB-ResourceSet-r18 ::=     SEQUENCE {
    ltm-CSI-SSB-ResourceList-r18        SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxNrofLTM-CSI-SSB-ResourcesPerSet-r18)) OF SSB-Index,
    ltm-CandidateIdList-r18             SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxNrofLTM-CSI-SSB-ResourcesPerSet-r18)) OF LTM-CandidateId-r18,
    ...
}

-- TAG-LTM-CSI-RESOURCECONFIG-STOP
-- ASN1STOP



–	LTM-CSI-ResourceConfigId
The IE LTM-CSI-ResourceConfigId is used to identify an LTM-CSI-ResourceConfig.
LTM-CSI-ResourceConfigId information element
-- ASN1START
-- TAG-LTM-CSI-RESOURCECONFIGID-START

LTM-CSI-ResourceConfigId-r18 ::=            INTEGER (0..maxNrofLTM-CSI-ResourceConfigurations-1-r18)

-- TAG-LTM-CSI-RESOURCECONFIGID-STOP
-- ASN1STOP

–	LTM-TCI-Info
The IE LTM-TCI-Info is used to configure TCI related information for an LTM candidate configuration to be used during activation of TCI state(s) and/or upon the reception of the LTM Cell Switch procedure.
LTM-TCI-Info information element
-- ASN1START
-- TAG-LTM-TCI-INFO-START

LTM-TCI-Info-r18 ::=             SEQUENCE {
    ltm-DL-OrJointTCI-StateToAddModList-r18        SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxNrofCandidateTCI-State-r18)) OF CandidateTCI-State-r18
                                                                                                         OPTIONAL,    -- Need N
    ltm-DL-OrJointTCI-StateToReleaseList-r18       SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxNrofCandidateTCI-State-r18)) OF TCI-StateId
                                                                                                         OPTIONAL,    -- Need N
    ltm-UL-TCI-StateToAddModList-r18               SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxNrofCandidateUL-TCI-r18)) OF CandidateTCI-UL-State-r18
                                                                                                         OPTIONAL,    -- Need N
    ltm-UL-TCI-StateToReleaseList-r18              SEQUENCE (SIZE (1.. maxNrofCandidateUL-TCI-r18)) OF TCI-UL-StateId-r17
                                                                                                         OPTIONAL,    -- Need N
    ltm-NZP-CSI-RS-ResourceToAddModList-r18        SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxNrofNZP-CSI-RS-Resources)) OF NZP-CSI-RS-Resource
                                                                                                         OPTIONAL,    -- Need N
    ltm-NZP-CSI-RS-ResourceToReleaseList-r18       SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxNrofNZP-CSI-RS-Resources)) OF NZP-CSI-RS-ResourceId
                                                                                                         OPTIONAL,    -- Need N
    ltm-NZP-CSI-RS-ResourceSetToAddModList-r18     SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxNrofNZP-CSI-RS-ResourceSets)) OF NZP-CSI-RS-ResourceSet
                                                                                                         OPTIONAL,    -- Need N
    ltm-NZP-CSI-RS-ResourceSetToReleaseList-r18    SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxNrofNZP-CSI-RS-ResourceSets)) OF NZP-CSI-RS-ResourceSetId
                                                                                                         OPTIONAL,    -- Need N
    pathlossReferenceRS-ToAddModList-r18           SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxNrofPathlossReferenceRSs-r17)) OF PathlossReferenceRS-r17
                                                                                                         OPTIONAL,    -- Need N
    pathlossReferenceRS-ToReleaseList-r18          SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxNrofPathlossReferenceRSs-r17)) OF PathlossReferenceRS-Id-r17
                                                                                                         OPTIONAL,    -- Need N
    unifiedTCI-StateType-r18                       ENUMERATED {separate, joint}                          OPTIONAL,    -- Need R
    ...
}
-- TAG-LTM-TCI-INFO-STOP
-- ASN1STOP



–	MAC-CellGroupConfig
The IE MAC-CellGroupConfig is used to configure MAC parameters for a cell group, including DRX.
MAC-CellGroupConfig information element
-- ASN1START
-- TAG-MAC-CELLGROUPCONFIG-START

MAC-CellGroupConfig ::=             SEQUENCE {
    drx-Config                          SetupRelease { DRX-Config }                                     OPTIONAL,   -- Need M
    schedulingRequestConfig             SchedulingRequestConfig                                         OPTIONAL,   -- Need M
    bsr-Config                          BSR-Config                                                      OPTIONAL,   -- Need M
    tag-Config                          TAG-Config                                                      OPTIONAL,   -- Need M
    phr-Config                          SetupRelease { PHR-Config }                                     OPTIONAL,   -- Need M
    skipUplinkTxDynamic                 BOOLEAN,
    ...,
    [[
    csi-Mask                            BOOLEAN                                                         OPTIONAL,   -- Need M
    dataInactivityTimer                 SetupRelease { DataInactivityTimer }                            OPTIONAL    -- Cond MCG-Only
    ]],
    [[
    usePreBSR-r16                       ENUMERATED {true}                                               OPTIONAL,   -- Need R
    schedulingRequestID-LBT-SCell-r16   SchedulingRequestId                                             OPTIONAL,   -- Need R
    lch-BasedPrioritization-r16         ENUMERATED {enabled}                                            OPTIONAL,   -- Need R
    schedulingRequestID-BFR-SCell-r16   SchedulingRequestId                                             OPTIONAL,   -- Need R
    drx-ConfigSecondaryGroup-r16        SetupRelease { DRX-ConfigSecondaryGroup-r16 }                   OPTIONAL    -- Need M
    ]],
    [[
    enhancedSkipUplinkTxDynamic-r16     ENUMERATED {true}                                               OPTIONAL,   -- Need R
    enhancedSkipUplinkTxConfigured-r16  ENUMERATED {true}                                               OPTIONAL    -- Need R
    ]],
    [[
    intraCG-Prioritization-r17          ENUMERATED {enabled}                        OPTIONAL,    -- Cond LCH-PrioWithReTxTimer
    drx-ConfigSL-r17                    SetupRelease { DRX-ConfigSL-r17 }           OPTIONAL,    -- Need M
    drx-ConfigExt-v1700                 SetupRelease { DRX-ConfigExt-v1700 }        OPTIONAL,    -- Need M
    schedulingRequestID-BFR-r17         SchedulingRequestId                         OPTIONAL,    -- Need R
    schedulingRequestID-BFR2-r17        SchedulingRequestId                         OPTIONAL,    -- Need R
    schedulingRequestConfig-v1700       SchedulingRequestConfig-v1700               OPTIONAL,    -- Need M
    tar-Config-r17                      SetupRelease { TAR-Config-r17  }                                OPTIONAL,    -- Need M
    g-RNTI-ConfigToAddModList-r17       SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxG-RNTI-r17)) OF MBS-RNTI-SpecificConfig-r17       OPTIONAL,    -- Need N
    g-RNTI-ConfigToReleaseList-r17      SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxG-RNTI-r17)) OF MBS-RNTI-SpecificConfigId-r17     OPTIONAL,    -- Need N
    g-CS-RNTI-ConfigToAddModList-r17    SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxG-CS-RNTI-r17)) OF MBS-RNTI-SpecificConfig-r17    OPTIONAL,    -- Need N
    g-CS-RNTI-ConfigToReleaseList-r17   SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxG-CS-RNTI-r17)) OF MBS-RNTI-SpecificConfigId-r17  OPTIONAL,    -- Need N
    allowCSI-SRS-Tx-MulticastDRX-Active-r17   BOOLEAN                                                           OPTIONAL     -- Need M
    ]],
    [[
    schedulingRequestID-PosMG-Request-r17 SchedulingRequestId                                                   OPTIONAL,    -- Need R
    drx-LastTransmissionUL-r17          ENUMERATED {enabled}                                                    OPTIONAL     -- Need R
    ]],
    [[
    posMG-Request-r17                   ENUMERATED {enabled}                                                    OPTIONAL     -- Need R
    ]],
    [[
    drx-ConfigExt2-v1800                SetupRelease { DRX-ConfigExt2-v1800 }                                   OPTIONAL,    -- Need M
    additionalBS-TableAllowed-r18       BIT STRING (SIZE (maxNrofLCGs-r18))                                     OPTIONAL,    -- Need R
    dsr-ConfigToAddModList-r18          SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxNrofLCGs-r18)) OF LCG-DSR-Config-r18              OPTIONAL,    -- Need N
    dsr-ConfigToReleaseList-r18         SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxNrofLCGs-r18)) OF LCG-Id-r18                      OPTIONAL,    -- Need N
    tar-Config-r18                      SetupRelease { TAR-Config-r18  }                                        OPTIONAL     -- Need M
    ]]
}

DataInactivityTimer ::=         ENUMERATED {s1, s2, s3, s5, s7, s10, s15, s20, s40, s50, s60, s80, s100, s120, s150, s180}

MBS-RNTI-SpecificConfig-r17 ::=        SEQUENCE {
    mbs-RNTI-SpecificConfigId-r17          MBS-RNTI-SpecificConfigId-r17,
    groupCommon-RNTI-r17                   CHOICE {
        g-RNTI                                 RNTI-Value,
        g-CS-RNTI                              RNTI-Value
    },
    drx-ConfigPTM-r17                      SetupRelease { DRX-ConfigPTM-r17 }                          OPTIONAL,   -- Need M
    harq-FeedbackEnablerMulticast-r17      ENUMERATED {dci-enabler, enabled}                           OPTIONAL,   -- Need S
    harq-FeedbackOptionMulticast-r17       ENUMERATED {ack-nack, nack-only}                            OPTIONAL,   -- Cond HARQFeedback
    pdsch-AggregationFactor-r17            ENUMERATED {n2, n4, n8}                                     OPTIONAL    -- Cond G-RNTI
}

MBS-RNTI-SpecificConfigId-r17 ::= INTEGER (0..maxG-RNTI-1-r17)

LCG-DSR-Config-r18 ::= SEQUENCE {
    lcg-Id-r18                      LCG-Id-r18,
    remainingTimeThreshold-r18      INTEGER (1..64),
    ...
}

LCG-Id-r18 ::= INTEGER (0..maxLCG-ID)

-- TAG-MAC-CELLGROUPCONFIG-STOP
-- ASN1STOP









–	MeasConfig
The IE MeasConfig specifies measurements to be performed by the UE, and covers intra-frequency, inter-frequency and inter-RAT mobility as well as configuration of measurement gaps.
MeasConfig information element
-- ASN1START
-- TAG-MEASCONFIG-START

MeasConfig ::=                      SEQUENCE {
    measObjectToRemoveList              MeasObjectToRemoveList                                              OPTIONAL,   -- Need N
    measObjectToAddModList              MeasObjectToAddModList                                              OPTIONAL,   -- Need N
    reportConfigToRemoveList            ReportConfigToRemoveList                                            OPTIONAL,   -- Need N
    reportConfigToAddModList            ReportConfigToAddModList                                            OPTIONAL,   -- Need N
    measIdToRemoveList                  MeasIdToRemoveList                                                  OPTIONAL,   -- Need N
    measIdToAddModList                  MeasIdToAddModList                                                  OPTIONAL,   -- Need N
    s-MeasureConfig                     CHOICE {
        ssb-RSRP                            RSRP-Range,
        csi-RSRP                            RSRP-Range
    }                                                                                                       OPTIONAL,   -- Need M
    quantityConfig                      QuantityConfig                                                      OPTIONAL,   -- Need M
    measGapConfig                       MeasGapConfig                                                       OPTIONAL,   -- Need M
    measGapSharingConfig                MeasGapSharingConfig                                                OPTIONAL,   -- Need M
    ...,
    [[
    interFrequencyConfig-NoGap-r16      ENUMERATED {true}                                                   OPTIONAL    -- Need R
    ]],
    [[
    effectiveMeasWindowConfig-r18       SetupRelease {MeasWindowConfig-r18}                                 OPTIONAL    -- Need M
    ]]
}

MeasObjectToRemoveList ::=              SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxNrofObjectId)) OF MeasObjectId

MeasIdToRemoveList ::=                  SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxNrofMeasId)) OF MeasId

ReportConfigToRemoveList ::=            SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxReportConfigId)) OF ReportConfigId

-- TAG-MEASCONFIG-STOP
-- ASN1STOP



–	MeasGapConfig
The IE MeasGapConfig specifies the measurement gap configuration and controls setup/release of measurement gaps.
MeasGapConfig information element
-- ASN1START
-- TAG-MEASGAPCONFIG-START

MeasGapConfig ::=                   SEQUENCE {
    gapFR2                              SetupRelease { GapConfig }                                              OPTIONAL,   -- Need M
    ...,
    [[
    gapFR1                              SetupRelease { GapConfig }                                              OPTIONAL,   -- Need M
    gapUE                               SetupRelease { GapConfig }                                              OPTIONAL    -- Need M
    ]],
    [[
    gapToAddModList-r17           SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxNrofGapId-r17)) OF GapConfig-r17                    OPTIONAL,   -- Need N
    gapToReleaseList-r17          SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxNrofGapId-r17)) OF MeasGapId-r17                    OPTIONAL,   -- Need N
    posMeasGapPreConfigToAddModList-r17      PosMeasGapPreConfigToAddModList-r17                                OPTIONAL,   -- Need N
    posMeasGapPreConfigToReleaseList-r17     PosMeasGapPreConfigToReleaseList-r17                               OPTIONAL    -- Need N
    ]]

}

GapConfig ::=                       SEQUENCE {
    gapOffset                           INTEGER (0..159),
    mgl                                 ENUMERATED {ms1dot5, ms3, ms3dot5, ms4, ms5dot5, ms6},
    mgrp                                ENUMERATED {ms20, ms40, ms80, ms160},
    mgta                                ENUMERATED {ms0, ms0dot25, ms0dot5},
    ...,
    [[
    refServCellIndicator                ENUMERATED {pCell, pSCell, mcg-FR2}                                 OPTIONAL   -- Cond NEDCorNRDC
    ]],
    [[
    refFR2ServCellAsyncCA-r16           ServCellIndex                                                       OPTIONAL,   -- Cond AsyncCA
    mgl-r16                             ENUMERATED {ms10, ms20}                                             OPTIONAL    -- Cond PRS
    ]]
}

GapConfig-r17 ::=                   SEQUENCE {
    measGapId-r17                       MeasGapId-r17,
    gapType-r17                         ENUMERATED {perUE, perFR1, perFR2},
    gapOffset-r17                       INTEGER (0..159),
    mgl-r17                             ENUMERATED {ms1, ms1dot5, ms2, ms3, ms3dot5, ms4, ms5, ms5dot5, ms6, ms10, ms20},
    mgrp-r17                            ENUMERATED {ms20, ms40, ms80, ms160},
    mgta-r17                            ENUMERATED {ms0, ms0dot25, ms0dot5, ms0dot75},
    refServCellIndicator-r17            ENUMERATED {pCell, pSCell, mcg-FR2}                                 OPTIONAL,   -- Cond NEDCorNRDC
    refFR2-ServCellAsyncCA-r17          ServCellIndex                                                       OPTIONAL,   -- Cond AsyncCA
    preConfigInd-r17                    ENUMERATED {true}                                                   OPTIONAL,   -- Need R
    ncsgInd-r17                         ENUMERATED {true}                                                   OPTIONAL,   -- Need R
    gapAssociationPRS-r17               ENUMERATED {true}                                                   OPTIONAL,   -- Need R
    gapSharing-r17                      MeasGapSharingScheme                                                OPTIONAL,   -- Need R
    gapPriority-r17                     GapPriority-r17                                                     OPTIONAL,   -- Need R
    ...
}

PosMeasGapPreConfigToAddModList-r17 ::= SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxNrofPreConfigPosGapId-r17)) OF PosGapConfig-r17

PosMeasGapPreConfigToReleaseList-r17 ::= SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxNrofPreConfigPosGapId-r17)) OF MeasPosPreConfigGapId-r17

PosGapConfig-r17 ::=                SEQUENCE {
    measPosPreConfigGapId-r17           MeasPosPreConfigGapId-r17,
    gapOffset-r17                       INTEGER (0..159),
    mgl-r17                             ENUMERATED {ms1dot5, ms3, ms3dot5, ms4, ms5dot5, ms6, ms10, ms20},
    mgrp-r17                            ENUMERATED {ms20, ms40, ms80, ms160},
    mgta-r17                            ENUMERATED {ms0, ms0dot25, ms0dot5},
    gapType-r17                         ENUMERATED {perUE, perFR1, perFR2},
    ...
}

MeasPosPreConfigGapId-r17 ::= INTEGER (1..maxNrofPreConfigPosGapId-r17)

-- TAG-MEASGAPCONFIG-STOP
-- ASN1STOP





–	MeasGapId
The IE MeasGapId used to identify a per UE or per FR measurement gap configuration.
MeasGapId information element
-- ASN1START
-- TAG-MEASGAPID-START

MeasGapId-r17 ::=                       INTEGER (1..maxNrofGapId-r17)

-- TAG-MEASGAPID-STOP
-- ASN1STOP

–	MeasGapSharingConfig
The IE MeasGapSharingConfig specifies the measurement gap sharing scheme and controls setup/ release of measurement gap sharing.
MeasGapSharingConfig information element
-- ASN1START
-- TAG-MEASGAPSHARINGCONFIG-START

MeasGapSharingConfig ::=        SEQUENCE {
    gapSharingFR2                   SetupRelease { MeasGapSharingScheme }       OPTIONAL,   -- Need M
    ...,
    [[
    gapSharingFR1                   SetupRelease { MeasGapSharingScheme }       OPTIONAL,   --Need M
    gapSharingUE                    SetupRelease { MeasGapSharingScheme }       OPTIONAL    --Need M
    ]]
}

MeasGapSharingScheme::=         ENUMERATED {scheme00, scheme01, scheme10, scheme11}

-- TAG-MEASGAPSHARINGCONFIG-STOP
-- ASN1STOP



–	MeasId
The IE MeasId is used to identify a measurement configuration, i.e., linking of a measurement object and a reporting configuration.
MeasId information element
-- ASN1START
-- TAG-MEASID-START

MeasId ::=                          INTEGER (1..maxNrofMeasId)

-- TAG-MEASID-STOP
-- ASN1STOP

–	MeasIdleConfig
The IE MeasIdleConfig is used to convey information to UE about measurements requested to be done while in RRC_IDLE or RRC_INACTIVE.
MeasIdleConfig information element
-- ASN1START
-- TAG-MEASIDLECONFIG-START

MeasIdleConfigSIB-r16 ::= SEQUENCE {
    measIdleCarrierListNR-r16       SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxFreqIdle-r16)) OF MeasIdleCarrierNR-r16          OPTIONAL,     -- Need S
    measIdleCarrierListEUTRA-r16    SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxFreqIdle-r16)) OF MeasIdleCarrierEUTRA-r16       OPTIONAL,     -- Need S
    ...,
    [[
    measIdleCarrierListNR-LessThan5MHz-r18   SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxFreqIdle-r16)) OF MeasIdleCarrierNR-r16       OPTIONAL,    -- Cond LessThan5MHz
    measReselectionCarrierListNR-r18     SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxFreqIdle-r16)) OF MeasReselectionCarrierNR-r18    OPTIONAL,    -- Need S
    measReselectionCarrierListNR-LessThan5MHz-r18   SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxFreqIdle-r16)) OF MeasReselectionCarrierNR-r18  OPTIONAL,    -- Cond LessThan5MHz
    measIdleValidityDuration-r18         MeasurementValidityDuration-r18                                         OPTIONAL,    -- Need S
    measReselectionValidityDuration-r18  MeasurementValidityDuration-r18                                         OPTIONAL     -- Need S
    ]]
}

MeasIdleConfigDedicated-r16 ::= SEQUENCE {
    measIdleCarrierListNR-r16       SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxFreqIdle-r16)) OF MeasIdleCarrierNR-r16          OPTIONAL,     -- Need N
    measIdleCarrierListEUTRA-r16    SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxFreqIdle-r16)) OF MeasIdleCarrierEUTRA-r16       OPTIONAL,     -- Need N
    measIdleDuration-r16            ENUMERATED{sec10, sec30, sec60, sec120, sec180, sec240, sec300, spare},
    validityAreaList-r16            ValidityAreaList-r16                                                   OPTIONAL,     -- Need N
    ...,
    [[
    measReselectionCarrierListNR-r18     SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxFreqIdle-r16)) OF MeasReselectionCarrierNR-r18    OPTIONAL,    -- Need S
    measIdleValidityDuration-r18         MeasurementValidityDuration-r18                                         OPTIONAL,    -- Need S
    measReselectionValidityDuration-r18  MeasurementValidityDuration-r18                                         OPTIONAL     -- Need S
    ]]
}

ValidityAreaList-r16 ::= SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxFreqIdle-r16)) OF ValidityArea-r16

ValidityArea-r16 ::=             SEQUENCE {
    carrierFreq-r16                  ARFCN-ValueNR,
    validityCellList-r16             ValidityCellList                                                     OPTIONAL   -- Need N
}

ValidityCellList ::= SEQUENCE (SIZE (1.. maxCellMeasIdle-r16)) OF PCI-Range

MeasIdleCarrierNR-r16 ::=        SEQUENCE {
    carrierFreq-r16                  ARFCN-ValueNR,
    ssbSubcarrierSpacing-r16         SubcarrierSpacing,
    frequencyBandList                MultiFrequencyBandListNR                                             OPTIONAL,  -- Need R
    measCellListNR-r16               CellListNR-r16                                                       OPTIONAL,  -- Need R
    reportQuantities-r16             ENUMERATED {rsrp, rsrq, both},
    qualityThreshold-r16             SEQUENCE {
        idleRSRP-Threshold-NR-r16        RSRP-Range                                                           OPTIONAL,  -- Need R
        idleRSRQ-Threshold-NR-r16        RSRQ-Range                                                           OPTIONAL   -- Need R
    }                                                                                                     OPTIONAL,  -- Need R
    ssb-MeasConfig-r16               SEQUENCE {
        nrofSS-BlocksToAverage-r16          INTEGER (2..maxNrofSS-BlocksToAverage)                            OPTIONAL,   -- Need S
        absThreshSS-BlocksConsolidation-r16 ThresholdNR                                                       OPTIONAL,   -- Need S
        smtc-r16                            SSB-MTC                                                           OPTIONAL,   -- Need S
        ssb-ToMeasure-r16                   SSB-ToMeasure                                                     OPTIONAL,   -- Need S
        deriveSSB-IndexFromCell-r16         BOOLEAN,
        ss-RSSI-Measurement-r16             SS-RSSI-Measurement                                               OPTIONAL    -- Need S
    }                                                                                                     OPTIONAL,  -- Need S
    beamMeasConfigIdle-r16           BeamMeasConfigIdle-NR-r16                                            OPTIONAL,  -- Need R
    ...
}

MeasIdleCarrierEUTRA-r16 ::=     SEQUENCE {
    carrierFreqEUTRA-r16             ARFCN-ValueEUTRA,
    allowedMeasBandwidth-r16         EUTRA-AllowedMeasBandwidth,
    measCellListEUTRA-r16            CellListEUTRA-r16                                                    OPTIONAL,  -- Need R
    reportQuantitiesEUTRA-r16        ENUMERATED {rsrp, rsrq, both},
    qualityThresholdEUTRA-r16        SEQUENCE {
        idleRSRP-Threshold-EUTRA-r16     RSRP-RangeEUTRA                                                      OPTIONAL,  -- Need R
        idleRSRQ-Threshold-EUTRA-r16     RSRQ-RangeEUTRA-r16                                                  OPTIONAL   -- Need R
    }                                                                                                     OPTIONAL,  -- Need S
    ...
}

MeasReselectionCarrierNR-r18 ::= SEQUENCE {
    carrierFreq-r18                  ARFCN-ValueNR,
    ...
}

CellListNR-r16  ::=       SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxCellMeasIdle-r16)) OF PCI-Range

CellListEUTRA-r16  ::=    SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxCellMeasIdle-r16)) OF EUTRA-PhysCellIdRange

BeamMeasConfigIdle-NR-r16  ::=   SEQUENCE {
    reportQuantityRS-Indexes-r16     ENUMERATED {rsrp, rsrq, both},
    maxNrofRS-IndexesToReport-r16    INTEGER (1.. maxNrofIndexesToReport),
    includeBeamMeasurements-r16      BOOLEAN
}

RSRQ-RangeEUTRA-r16 ::=   INTEGER (-30..46)

-- TAG-MEASIDLECONFIG-STOP
-- ASN1STOP





–	MeasIdToAddModList
The IE MeasIdToAddModList concerns a list of measurement identities to add or modify, with for each entry the measId, the associated measObjectId and the associated reportConfigId.
MeasIdToAddModList information element
-- ASN1START
-- TAG-MEASIDTOADDMODLIST-START

MeasIdToAddModList ::=              SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxNrofMeasId)) OF MeasIdToAddMod

MeasIdToAddMod ::=                  SEQUENCE {
    measId                              MeasId,
    measObjectId                        MeasObjectId,
    reportConfigId                      ReportConfigId
}

-- TAG-MEASIDTOADDMODLIST-STOP
-- ASN1STOP

–	MeasObjectCLI
The IE MeasObjectCLI specifies information applicable for SRS-RSRP measurements and/or CLI-RSSI measurements.
MeasObjectCLI information element
-- ASN1START
-- TAG-MEASOBJECTCLI-START

MeasObjectCLI-r16 ::=                  SEQUENCE {
     cli-ResourceConfig-r16               CLI-ResourceConfig-r16,
    ...
}

CLI-ResourceConfig-r16 ::=          SEQUENCE {
    srs-ResourceConfig-r16              SetupRelease { SRS-ResourceListConfigCLI-r16 }                 OPTIONAL,   -- Need M
    rssi-ResourceConfig-r16             SetupRelease { RSSI-ResourceListConfigCLI-r16 }                OPTIONAL    -- Need M
}

SRS-ResourceListConfigCLI-r16 ::=   SEQUENCE (SIZE (1.. maxNrofCLI-SRS-Resources-r16)) OF SRS-ResourceConfigCLI-r16

RSSI-ResourceListConfigCLI-r16 ::=  SEQUENCE (SIZE (1.. maxNrofCLI-RSSI-Resources-r16)) OF RSSI-ResourceConfigCLI-r16

SRS-ResourceConfigCLI-r16 ::=       SEQUENCE {
    srs-Resource-r16                    SRS-Resource,
    srs-SCS-r16                         SubcarrierSpacing,
    refServCellIndex-r16                ServCellIndex                                                  OPTIONAL,   -- Need S
    refBWP-r16                          BWP-Id,
    ...
}

RSSI-ResourceConfigCLI-r16 ::=      SEQUENCE {
    rssi-ResourceId-r16                 RSSI-ResourceId-r16,
    rssi-SCS-r16                        SubcarrierSpacing,
    startPRB-r16                        INTEGER (0..2169),
    nrofPRBs-r16                        INTEGER (4..maxNrofPhysicalResourceBlocksPlus1),
    startPosition-r16                   INTEGER (0..13),
    nrofSymbols-r16                     INTEGER (1..14),
    rssi-PeriodicityAndOffset-r16       RSSI-PeriodicityAndOffset-r16,
    refServCellIndex-r16                ServCellIndex                                                  OPTIONAL,   -- Need S
    ...
}

RSSI-ResourceId-r16 ::=             INTEGER (0.. maxNrofCLI-RSSI-Resources-1-r16)

RSSI-PeriodicityAndOffset-r16 ::=   CHOICE {
    sl10                                INTEGER(0..9),
    sl20                                INTEGER(0..19),
    sl40                                INTEGER(0..39),
    sl80                                INTEGER(0..79),
    sl160                               INTEGER(0..159),
    sl320                               INTEGER(0..319),
    s1640                               INTEGER(0..639),
    ...
}

-- TAG-MEASOBJECTCLI-STOP
-- ASN1STOP









–	MeasObjectEUTRA
The IE MeasObjectEUTRA specifies information applicable for EUTRA cells.
MeasObjectEUTRA information element
-- ASN1START
-- TAG-MEASOBJECTEUTRA-START

MeasObjectEUTRA::=                          SEQUENCE {
    carrierFreq                                 ARFCN-ValueEUTRA,
    allowedMeasBandwidth                        EUTRA-AllowedMeasBandwidth,
    cellsToRemoveListEUTRAN                     EUTRA-CellIndexList                                         OPTIONAL,    -- Need N
    cellsToAddModListEUTRAN                     SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxCellMeasEUTRA)) OF EUTRA-Cell         OPTIONAL,    -- Need N
    excludedCellsToRemoveListEUTRAN             EUTRA-CellIndexList                                         OPTIONAL,    -- Need N
    excludedCellsToAddModListEUTRAN             SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxCellMeasEUTRA)) OF EUTRA-ExcludedCell OPTIONAL,    -- Need N
    eutra-PresenceAntennaPort1                  EUTRA-PresenceAntennaPort1,
    eutra-Q-OffsetRange                         EUTRA-Q-OffsetRange                                         OPTIONAL,    -- Need R
    widebandRSRQ-Meas                           BOOLEAN,
    ...,
    [[
    associatedMeasGap-r17                       MeasGapId-r17                                               OPTIONAL     -- Need R
    ]],
    [[
    measSequence-r18                            MeasSequence-r18                                            OPTIONAL     -- Need R
    ]]
}

EUTRA-CellIndexList ::=                     SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxCellMeasEUTRA)) OF EUTRA-CellIndex

EUTRA-CellIndex ::=                         INTEGER (1..maxCellMeasEUTRA)


EUTRA-Cell ::=                              SEQUENCE {
    cellIndexEUTRA                              EUTRA-CellIndex,
    physCellId                                  EUTRA-PhysCellId,
    cellIndividualOffset                        EUTRA-Q-OffsetRange
}


EUTRA-ExcludedCell ::=                      SEQUENCE {
    cellIndexEUTRA                              EUTRA-CellIndex,
    physCellIdRange                             EUTRA-PhysCellIdRange
}

-- TAG-MEASOBJECTEUTRA-STOP
-- ASN1STOP







–	MeasObjectId
The IE MeasObjectId used to identify a measurement object configuration.
MeasObjectId information element
-- ASN1START
-- TAG-MEASOBJECTID-START

MeasObjectId ::=                    INTEGER (1..maxNrofObjectId)

-- TAG-MEASOBJECTID-STOP
-- ASN1STOP

–	MeasObjectNR
The IE MeasObjectNR specifies information applicable for SS/PBCH block(s) intra/inter-frequency measurements and/or CSI-RS intra/inter-frequency measurements.
MeasObjectNR information element
-- ASN1START
-- TAG-MEASOBJECTNR-START

MeasObjectNR ::=                    SEQUENCE {
    ssbFrequency                        ARFCN-ValueNR                                                   OPTIONAL,   -- Cond SSBorAssociatedSSB2
    ssbSubcarrierSpacing                SubcarrierSpacing                                               OPTIONAL,   -- Cond SSBorAssociatedSSB
    smtc1                               SSB-MTC                                                         OPTIONAL,   -- Cond SSBorAssociatedSSB
    smtc2                               SSB-MTC2                                                        OPTIONAL,   -- Cond IntraFreqConnected
    refFreqCSI-RS                       ARFCN-ValueNR                                                   OPTIONAL,   -- Cond CSI-RS
    referenceSignalConfig               ReferenceSignalConfig,
    absThreshSS-BlocksConsolidation     ThresholdNR                                                     OPTIONAL,   -- Need R
    absThreshCSI-RS-Consolidation       ThresholdNR                                                     OPTIONAL,   -- Need R
    nrofSS-BlocksToAverage              INTEGER (2..maxNrofSS-BlocksToAverage)                          OPTIONAL,   -- Need R
    nrofCSI-RS-ResourcesToAverage       INTEGER (2..maxNrofCSI-RS-ResourcesToAverage)                   OPTIONAL,   -- Need R
    quantityConfigIndex                 INTEGER (1..maxNrofQuantityConfig),
    offsetMO                            Q-OffsetRangeList,
    cellsToRemoveList                   PCI-List                                                        OPTIONAL,   -- Need N
    cellsToAddModList                   CellsToAddModList                                               OPTIONAL,   -- Need N
    excludedCellsToRemoveList           PCI-RangeIndexList                                              OPTIONAL,   -- Need N
    excludedCellsToAddModList           SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxNrofPCI-Ranges)) OF PCI-RangeElement      OPTIONAL,   -- Need N
    allowedCellsToRemoveList            PCI-RangeIndexList                                              OPTIONAL,   -- Need N
    allowedCellsToAddModList            SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxNrofPCI-Ranges)) OF PCI-RangeElement      OPTIONAL,   -- Need N
    ...,
    [[
    freqBandIndicatorNR                 FreqBandIndicatorNR                                             OPTIONAL,   -- Need R
    measCycleSCell                      ENUMERATED {sf160, sf256, sf320, sf512, sf640, sf1024, sf1280}  OPTIONAL    -- Need R
    ]],
    [[
    smtc3list-r16                       SSB-MTC3List-r16                                                OPTIONAL,   -- Need R
    rmtc-Config-r16                     SetupRelease {RMTC-Config-r16}                                  OPTIONAL,   -- Need M
    t312-r16                            SetupRelease { T312-r16 }                                       OPTIONAL    -- Need M
    ]],
    [[
    associatedMeasGapSSB-r17            MeasGapId-r17                                                   OPTIONAL,   -- Need R
    associatedMeasGapCSIRS-r17          MeasGapId-r17                                                   OPTIONAL,   -- Need R
    smtc4list-r17                       SSB-MTC4List-r17                                                OPTIONAL,   -- Need R
    measCyclePSCell-r17                 ENUMERATED {ms160, ms256, ms320, ms512, ms640, ms1024, ms1280, spare1}
                                                                                                        OPTIONAL,   -- Cond SCG
    cellsToAddModListExt-v1710          CellsToAddModListExt-v1710                                      OPTIONAL    -- Need N
    ]],
    [[
    associatedMeasGapSSB2-v1720         MeasGapId-r17                                               OPTIONAL, -- Cond AssociatedGapSSB
    associatedMeasGapCSIRS2-v1720       MeasGapId-r17                                               OPTIONAL  -- Cond AssociatedGapCSIRS
    ]],
    [[
    measSequence-r18                    MeasSequence-r18                                                OPTIONAL,   -- Need R
    cellsToAddModListExt-v1800          CellsToAddModListExt-v1800                                      OPTIONAL    -- Need N
    ]]
}

SSB-MTC3List-r16::=                 SEQUENCE (SIZE(1..4)) OF SSB-MTC3-r16

SSB-MTC4List-r17::=                 SEQUENCE (SIZE(1..3)) OF SSB-MTC4-r17

T312-r16 ::=                        ENUMERATED { ms0, ms50, ms100, ms200, ms300, ms400, ms500, ms1000}

ReferenceSignalConfig::=            SEQUENCE {
    ssb-ConfigMobility                  SSB-ConfigMobility                                              OPTIONAL,   -- Need M
    csi-rs-ResourceConfigMobility       SetupRelease { CSI-RS-ResourceConfigMobility }                  OPTIONAL    -- Need M
}

SSB-ConfigMobility::=               SEQUENCE {
    ssb-ToMeasure                       SetupRelease { SSB-ToMeasure }                                  OPTIONAL,   -- Need M
    deriveSSB-IndexFromCell             BOOLEAN,
    ss-RSSI-Measurement                 SS-RSSI-Measurement                                             OPTIONAL,   -- Need M
    ...,
    [[
    ssb-PositionQCL-Common-r16              SSB-PositionQCL-Relation-r16                                OPTIONAL,   -- Cond SharedSpectrum
    ssb-PositionQCL-CellsToAddModList-r16   SSB-PositionQCL-CellsToAddModList-r16                       OPTIONAL,   -- Need N
    ssb-PositionQCL-CellsToRemoveList-r16   PCI-List                                                    OPTIONAL    -- Need N
    ]],
    [[
    deriveSSB-IndexFromCellInter-r17    ServCellIndex                                                   OPTIONAL,   -- Need R
    ssb-PositionQCL-Common-r17          SSB-PositionQCL-Relation-r17                                OPTIONAL,   -- Cond SharedSpectrum2
    ssb-PositionQCL-Cells-r17           SetupRelease {SSB-PositionQCL-CellList-r17}                     OPTIONAL    -- Need M
    ]],
    [[
    cca-CellsToAddModList-r17           PCI-List                                                        OPTIONAL,   -- Need N
    cca-CellsToRemoveList-r17           PCI-List                                                        OPTIONAL    -- Need N
    ]],
    [[
    ssb-ToMeasureAltitudeBasedList-r18  SetupRelease { SSB-ToMeasureAltitudeBasedList-r18 }             OPTIONAL    -- Need M
    ]]
}

Q-OffsetRangeList ::=               SEQUENCE {
    rsrpOffsetSSB                       Q-OffsetRange               DEFAULT dB0,
    rsrqOffsetSSB                       Q-OffsetRange               DEFAULT dB0,
    sinrOffsetSSB                       Q-OffsetRange               DEFAULT dB0,
    rsrpOffsetCSI-RS                    Q-OffsetRange               DEFAULT dB0,
    rsrqOffsetCSI-RS                    Q-OffsetRange               DEFAULT dB0,
    sinrOffsetCSI-RS                    Q-OffsetRange               DEFAULT dB0
}


ThresholdNR ::=                     SEQUENCE{
    thresholdRSRP                       RSRP-Range                                                      OPTIONAL,   -- Need R
    thresholdRSRQ                       RSRQ-Range                                                      OPTIONAL,   -- Need R
    thresholdSINR                       SINR-Range                                                      OPTIONAL    -- Need R
}

CellsToAddModList ::=               SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxNrofCellMeas)) OF CellsToAddMod

CellsToAddModListExt-v1710 ::=      SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxNrofCellMeas)) OF CellsToAddModExt-v1710

CellsToAddModListExt-v1800 ::=      SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxNrofCellMeas)) OF CellsToAddModExt-v1800

CellsToAddMod ::=                   SEQUENCE {
    physCellId                          PhysCellId,
    cellIndividualOffset                Q-OffsetRangeList
}

CellsToAddModExt-v1710 ::=          SEQUENCE {
    ntn-PolarizationDL-r17              ENUMERATED {rhcp,lhcp,linear}                                   OPTIONAL,  -- Need R
    ntn-PolarizationUL-r17              ENUMERATED {rhcp,lhcp,linear}                                   OPTIONAL   -- Need S
}

CellsToAddModExt-v1800 ::=          SEQUENCE {
    ntn-NeighbourCellInfo-r18           NTN-NeighbourCellInfo-r18                                       OPTIONAL   -- Cond NeighbourCell
}

RMTC-Config-r16 ::=                 SEQUENCE {
    rmtc-Periodicity-r16                ENUMERATED {ms40, ms80, ms160, ms320, ms640},
    rmtc-SubframeOffset-r16             INTEGER(0..639)                                                 OPTIONAL,   -- Need M
    measDurationSymbols-r16             ENUMERATED {sym1, sym14or12, sym28or24, sym42or36, sym70or60},
    rmtc-Frequency-r16                  ARFCN-ValueNR,
    ref-SCS-CP-r16                      ENUMERATED {kHz15, kHz30, kHz60-NCP, kHz60-ECP},
    ...,
    [[
    rmtc-Bandwidth-r17                  ENUMERATED {mhz100, mhz400, mhz800, mhz1600, mhz2000}           OPTIONAL,   -- Need R
    measDurationSymbols-v1700           ENUMERATED {sym140, sym560, sym1120}                            OPTIONAL,   -- Need R
    ref-SCS-CP-v1700                    ENUMERATED {kHz120, kHz480, kHz960}                             OPTIONAL,   -- Need R
    tci-StateInfo-r17               SEQUENCE {
        tci-StateId-r17                  TCI-StateId,
        ref-ServCellId-r17               ServCellIndex                                                  OPTIONAL   -- Need R
    } OPTIONAL -- Need R
    ]],
    [[
    ref-BWPId-r17                   BWP-Id                                                              OPTIONAL   -- Need R
    ]]
}

SSB-PositionQCL-CellsToAddModList-r16 ::= SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxNrofCellMeas)) OF SSB-PositionQCL-CellsToAddMod-r16

SSB-PositionQCL-CellsToAddMod-r16 ::= SEQUENCE {
    physCellId-r16                        PhysCellId,
    ssb-PositionQCL-r16                   SSB-PositionQCL-Relation-r16
}

SSB-PositionQCL-CellList-r17 ::= SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxNrofCellMeas)) OF SSB-PositionQCL-Cell-r17

SSB-PositionQCL-Cell-r17         ::= SEQUENCE {
    physCellId-r17                        PhysCellId,
    ssb-PositionQCL-r17                   SSB-PositionQCL-Relation-r17
}

SSB-ToMeasureAltitudeBasedList-r18 ::= SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxNrofAltitudeRanges-r18)) OF SSB-ToMeasureAltitudeBased-r18

SSB-ToMeasureAltitudeBased-r18 ::=     SEQUENCE {
    altitudeRange-r18                      SEQUENCE {
        altitudeMin-r18                        Altitude-r18                                             OPTIONAL,  -- Need S
        altitudeMax-r18                        Altitude-r18                                             OPTIONAL,  -- Need S
        altitudeHyst-r18                       HysteresisAltitude-r18                                   OPTIONAL   -- Need R
    },
    ssb-ToMeasure-r18                      SSB-ToMeasure                                                OPTIONAL   -- Need S
}

NTN-NeighbourCellInfo-r18 ::=          SEQUENCE {
    epochTime-r18                          EpochTime-r17,
    ephemerisInfo-r18                      EphemerisInfo-r17,
    referenceLocation-r18                  ReferenceLocation-r17                                        OPTIONAL   -- Need R
}

-- TAG-MEASOBJECTNR-STOP
-- ASN1STOP















–	MeasObjectNR-SL
The IE MeasObjectNR-SL concerns a measurement object including a list of transmission resource pool(s) for which CBR measurement is performed for NR sidelink communication/discovery.
MeasObjectNR-SL information element
-- ASN1START
-- TAG-MEASOBJECTNR-SL-START

MeasObjectNR-SL-r16 ::=      SEQUENCE {
    tx-PoolMeasToRemoveList-r16  Tx-PoolMeasList-r16                           OPTIONAL,       -- Need N
    tx-PoolMeasToAddModList-r16  Tx-PoolMeasList-r16                           OPTIONAL        -- Need N
}

MeasObjectNR-SL-r18 ::=      SEQUENCE {
    sl-Frequency-r18             INTEGER (1..maxNrofFreqSL-r16),
    tx-PoolMeasToRemoveList-r18  Tx-PoolMeasList-r16                           OPTIONAL,       -- Need N
    tx-PoolMeasToAddModList-r18  Tx-PoolMeasList-r16                           OPTIONAL        -- Need N
}

Tx-PoolMeasList-r16 ::= SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxNrofSL-PoolToMeasureNR-r16)) OF SL-ResourcePoolID-r16

-- TAG-MEASOBJECTNR-SL-STOP
-- ASN1STOP



–	MeasObjectRxTxDiff
The IE MeasObjectRxTxDiff is used to configure the measurement object for UE Rx-Tx time difference measurement.
MeasObjectRxTxDiff information element
-- ASN1START
-- TAG-MEASOBJECTRXTXDIFF-START


MeasObjectRxTxDiff-r17 ::=      SEQUENCE {
    dl-Ref-r17      CHOICE {
        prs-Ref-r17             NULL,
        csi-RS-Ref-r17          NULL,
        ...
    }                               OPTIONAL,   -- Need R
    ...
}

-- TAG-MEASOBJECTRXTXDIFF-STOP
-- ASN1STOP



–	MeasObjectToAddModList
The IE MeasObjectToAddModList concerns a list of measurement objects to add or modify.
MeasObjectToAddModList information element
-- ASN1START
-- TAG-MEASOBJECTTOADDMODLIST-START

MeasObjectToAddModList ::=                  SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxNrofObjectId)) OF MeasObjectToAddMod

MeasObjectToAddMod ::=                      SEQUENCE {
    measObjectId                                MeasObjectId,
    measObject                                  CHOICE {
        measObjectNR                                MeasObjectNR,
        ...,
        measObjectEUTRA                             MeasObjectEUTRA,
        measObjectUTRA-FDD-r16                      MeasObjectUTRA-FDD-r16,
        measObjectNR-SL-r16                         MeasObjectNR-SL-r16,
        measObjectCLI-r16                           MeasObjectCLI-r16,
        measObjectRxTxDiff-r17                      MeasObjectRxTxDiff-r17,
        measObjectRelay-r17                         SL-MeasObject-r16,
        measObjectNR-SL-r18                         MeasObjectNR-SL-r18
    }
}

-- TAG-MEASOBJECTTOADDMODLIST-STOP
-- ASN1STOP

–	MeasObjectUTRA-FDD
The IE MeasObjectUTRA-FDD specifies information applicable for inter-RAT UTRA-FDD neighbouring cells.
MeasObjectUTRA-FDD information element
-- ASN1START
-- TAG-MEASOBJECTUTRA-FDD-START

MeasObjectUTRA-FDD-r16 ::=                  SEQUENCE {
    carrierFreq-r16                             ARFCN-ValueUTRA-FDD-r16,
    utra-FDD-Q-OffsetRange-r16                  UTRA-FDD-Q-OffsetRange-r16              OPTIONAL,         -- Need R
    cellsToRemoveList-r16                       UTRA-FDD-CellIndexList-r16              OPTIONAL,         -- Need N
    cellsToAddModList-r16                       CellsToAddModListUTRA-FDD-r16           OPTIONAL,         -- Need N
    ...
}

CellsToAddModListUTRA-FDD-r16 ::=           SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxCellMeasUTRA-FDD-r16)) OF CellsToAddModUTRA-FDD-r16

CellsToAddModUTRA-FDD-r16 ::=               SEQUENCE {
    cellIndexUTRA-FDD-r16                       UTRA-FDD-CellIndex-r16,
    physCellId-r16                              PhysCellIdUTRA-FDD-r16
}

UTRA-FDD-CellIndexList-r16 ::=              SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxCellMeasUTRA-FDD-r16)) OF UTRA-FDD-CellIndex-r16

UTRA-FDD-CellIndex-r16 ::=                  INTEGER (1..maxCellMeasUTRA-FDD-r16)

-- TAG-MEASOBJECTUTRA-FDD-STOP
-- ASN1STOP



–	MeasResultCellListSFTD-NR
The IE MeasResultCellListSFTD-NR consists of SFN and radio frame boundary difference between the PCell and an NR cell as specified in TS 38.215 [9] and TS 38.133 [14].
MeasResultCellListSFTD-NR information element
-- ASN1START
-- TAG-MEASRESULTCELLLISTSFTD-NR-START

MeasResultCellListSFTD-NR ::=          SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxCellSFTD)) OF MeasResultCellSFTD-NR

MeasResultCellSFTD-NR ::=              SEQUENCE {
    physCellId                            PhysCellId,
    sfn-OffsetResult                      INTEGER (0..1023),
    frameBoundaryOffsetResult             INTEGER (-30720..30719),
    rsrp-Result                           RSRP-Range                      OPTIONAL
}

-- TAG-MEASRESULTCELLLISTSFTD-NR-STOP
-- ASN1STOP



–	MeasResultCellListSFTD-EUTRA
The IE MeasResultCellListSFTD-EUTRA consists of SFN and radio frame boundary difference between the PCell and an E-UTRA PSCell.
MeasResultCellListSFTD-EUTRA information element
-- ASN1START
-- TAG-MEASRESULTCELLLISTSFTD-EUTRA-START

MeasResultCellListSFTD-EUTRA ::=          SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxCellSFTD)) OF MeasResultSFTD-EUTRA

MeasResultSFTD-EUTRA ::=           SEQUENCE {
    eutra-PhysCellId                    EUTRA-PhysCellId,
    sfn-OffsetResult                    INTEGER (0..1023),
    frameBoundaryOffsetResult           INTEGER (-30720..30719),
    rsrp-Result                         RSRP-Range                      OPTIONAL
}

-- TAG-MEASRESULTCELLLISTSFTD-EUTRA-STOP
-- ASN1STOP



–	MeasResults
The IE MeasResults covers measured results for intra-frequency, inter-frequency, inter-RAT mobility and measured results for NR sidelink communication/discovery/positioning.
MeasResults information element
-- ASN1START
-- TAG-MEASRESULTS-START

MeasResults ::=                         SEQUENCE {
    measId                                  MeasId,
    measResultServingMOList                 MeasResultServMOList,
    measResultNeighCells                    CHOICE {
        measResultListNR                        MeasResultListNR,
        ...,
        measResultListEUTRA                     MeasResultListEUTRA,
        measResultListUTRA-FDD-r16              MeasResultListUTRA-FDD-r16,
        sl-MeasResultsCandRelay-r17             OCTET STRING        -- Contains PC5 SL-MeasResultListRelay-r17
    }                                                                                                                   OPTIONAL,
    ...,
    [[
    measResultServFreqListEUTRA-SCG         MeasResultServFreqListEUTRA-SCG                                             OPTIONAL,
    measResultServFreqListNR-SCG            MeasResultServFreqListNR-SCG                                                OPTIONAL,
    measResultSFTD-EUTRA                    MeasResultSFTD-EUTRA                                                        OPTIONAL,
    measResultSFTD-NR                       MeasResultCellSFTD-NR                                                       OPTIONAL
     ]],
     [[
    measResultCellListSFTD-NR               MeasResultCellListSFTD-NR                                                   OPTIONAL
    ]],
    [[
    measResultForRSSI-r16                   MeasResultForRSSI-r16                                                       OPTIONAL,
    locationInfo-r16                        LocationInfo-r16                                                            OPTIONAL,
    ul-PDCP-DelayValueResultList-r16        UL-PDCP-DelayValueResultList-r16                                            OPTIONAL,
    measResultsSL-r16                       MeasResultsSL-r16                                                           OPTIONAL,
    measResultCLI-r16                       MeasResultCLI-r16                                                           OPTIONAL
    ]],
    [[
    measResultRxTxTimeDiff-r17              MeasResultRxTxTimeDiff-r17                                                  OPTIONAL,
    sl-MeasResultServingRelay-r17           OCTET STRING                                                                OPTIONAL,
                                                                                          -- Contains PC5 SL-MeasResultRelay-r17
    ul-PDCP-ExcessDelayResultList-r17       UL-PDCP-ExcessDelayResultList-r17                                           OPTIONAL,
    coarseLocationInfo-r17                  OCTET STRING                                                                OPTIONAL
    ]],
    [[
    altitudeUE-r18                          Altitude-r18                                                                OPTIONAL,
    cellsMetReportOnLeaveList-r18           SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxCellReport)) OF PhysCellId                            OPTIONAL
    ]]
}

MeasResultServMOList ::=                SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxNrofServingCells)) OF MeasResultServMO

MeasResultServMO ::=                    SEQUENCE {
    servCellId                              ServCellIndex,
    measResultServingCell                   MeasResultNR,
    measResultBestNeighCell                 MeasResultNR                                                                OPTIONAL,
    ...
}

MeasResultListNR ::=                    SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxCellReport)) OF MeasResultNR

MeasResultNR ::=                        SEQUENCE {
    physCellId                              PhysCellId                                                                  OPTIONAL,
    measResult                              SEQUENCE {
        cellResults                             SEQUENCE{
            resultsSSB-Cell                         MeasQuantityResults                                                 OPTIONAL,
            resultsCSI-RS-Cell                      MeasQuantityResults                                                 OPTIONAL
        },
        rsIndexResults                          SEQUENCE{
            resultsSSB-Indexes                      ResultsPerSSB-IndexList                                             OPTIONAL,
            resultsCSI-RS-Indexes                   ResultsPerCSI-RS-IndexList                                          OPTIONAL
        }                                                                                                               OPTIONAL
    },
    ...,
    [[
    cgi-Info                                CGI-InfoNR                                                                  OPTIONAL
    ]],
    [[
    choCandidate-r17                        ENUMERATED {true}                                                           OPTIONAL,
    choConfig-r17                           SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..2)) OF CondTriggerConfig-r16                             OPTIONAL,
    triggeredEvent-r17                      SEQUENCE {
        timeBetweenEvents-r17                   TimeBetweenEvent-r17                                                    OPTIONAL,
        firstTriggeredEvent-r17                 ENUMERATED {condFirstEvent, condSecondEvent}                            OPTIONAL
        }                                                                                                               OPTIONAL
    ]],
    [[
    entering-r18                            ENUMERATED {true}                                                           OPTIONAL
    ]]
}

MeasResultListEUTRA ::=                 SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxCellReport)) OF MeasResultEUTRA

MeasResultEUTRA ::=                     SEQUENCE {
    eutra-PhysCellId                        PhysCellId,
    measResult                              MeasQuantityResultsEUTRA,

    cgi-Info                                CGI-InfoEUTRA                                                               OPTIONAL,
    ...
}

MultiBandInfoListEUTRA ::=              SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxMultiBands)) OF FreqBandIndicatorEUTRA

MeasQuantityResults ::=                 SEQUENCE {
    rsrp                                    RSRP-Range                                                                  OPTIONAL,
    rsrq                                    RSRQ-Range                                                                  OPTIONAL,
    sinr                                    SINR-Range                                                                  OPTIONAL
}

MeasQuantityResultsEUTRA ::=            SEQUENCE {
    rsrp                                    RSRP-RangeEUTRA                                                             OPTIONAL,
    rsrq                                    RSRQ-RangeEUTRA                                                             OPTIONAL,
    sinr                                    SINR-RangeEUTRA                                                             OPTIONAL
}

ResultsPerSSB-IndexList::=              SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxNrofIndexesToReport2)) OF ResultsPerSSB-Index

ResultsPerSSB-Index ::=                 SEQUENCE {
    ssb-Index                               SSB-Index,
    ssb-Results                             MeasQuantityResults                                                         OPTIONAL
}

ResultsPerCSI-RS-IndexList::=           SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxNrofIndexesToReport2)) OF ResultsPerCSI-RS-Index

ResultsPerCSI-RS-Index ::=              SEQUENCE {
    csi-RS-Index                            CSI-RS-Index,
    csi-RS-Results                          MeasQuantityResults                                                         OPTIONAL
}
MeasResultServFreqListEUTRA-SCG ::= SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxNrofServingCellsEUTRA)) OF MeasResult2EUTRA

MeasResultServFreqListNR-SCG ::= SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxNrofServingCells)) OF MeasResult2NR

MeasResultListUTRA-FDD-r16 ::=          SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxCellReport)) OF MeasResultUTRA-FDD-r16

MeasResultUTRA-FDD-r16 ::=              SEQUENCE {
    physCellId-r16                          PhysCellIdUTRA-FDD-r16,
    measResult-r16                          SEQUENCE {
        utra-FDD-RSCP-r16                       INTEGER (-5..91)          OPTIONAL,
        utra-FDD-EcN0-r16                       INTEGER (0..49)           OPTIONAL
    }
}

MeasResultForRSSI-r16 ::=        SEQUENCE {
    rssi-Result-r16                  RSSI-Range-r16,
    channelOccupancy-r16             INTEGER (0..100)
}

MeasResultCLI-r16 ::=            SEQUENCE {
    measResultListSRS-RSRP-r16       MeasResultListSRS-RSRP-r16                                                         OPTIONAL,
    measResultListCLI-RSSI-r16       MeasResultListCLI-RSSI-r16                                                         OPTIONAL
}

MeasResultListSRS-RSRP-r16 ::=   SEQUENCE (SIZE (1.. maxCLI-Report-r16)) OF MeasResultSRS-RSRP-r16

MeasResultSRS-RSRP-r16 ::=       SEQUENCE {
    srs-ResourceId-r16               SRS-ResourceId,
    srs-RSRP-Result-r16              SRS-RSRP-Range-r16
}

MeasResultListCLI-RSSI-r16 ::=   SEQUENCE (SIZE (1.. maxCLI-Report-r16)) OF MeasResultCLI-RSSI-r16

MeasResultCLI-RSSI-r16 ::=       SEQUENCE {
    rssi-ResourceId-r16              RSSI-ResourceId-r16,
    cli-RSSI-Result-r16              CLI-RSSI-Range-r16
}

UL-PDCP-DelayValueResultList-r16 ::= SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxDRB)) OF UL-PDCP-DelayValueResult-r16

UL-PDCP-DelayValueResult-r16 ::= SEQUENCE {
    drb-Id-r16                       DRB-Identity,
    averageDelay-r16                 INTEGER (0..10000),
    ...
}

UL-PDCP-ExcessDelayResultList-r17 ::= SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxDRB)) OF UL-PDCP-ExcessDelayResult-r17

UL-PDCP-ExcessDelayResult-r17 ::= SEQUENCE {
    drb-Id-r17                        DRB-Identity,
    excessDelay-r17                   INTEGER (0..31),
    ...
}

TimeBetweenEvent-r17 ::= INTEGER (0..1023)

-- TAG-MEASRESULTS-STOP
-- ASN1STOP









–	MeasResult2EUTRA
The IE MeasResult2EUTRA contains measurements on E-UTRA frequencies.
MeasResult2EUTRA information element
-- ASN1START
-- TAG-MEASRESULT2EUTRA-START

MeasResult2EUTRA ::=       SEQUENCE {
    carrierFreq                         ARFCN-ValueEUTRA,
    measResultServingCell               MeasResultEUTRA                 OPTIONAL,
    measResultBestNeighCell             MeasResultEUTRA                 OPTIONAL,
    ...
}

-- TAG-MEASRESULT2EUTRA-STOP
-- ASN1STOP

–	MeasResult2NR
The IE MeasResult2NR contains measurements on NR frequencies.
MeasResult2NR information element
-- ASN1START
-- TAG-MEASRESULT2NR-START

MeasResult2NR ::=                   SEQUENCE {
    ssbFrequency                        ARFCN-ValueNR                           OPTIONAL,
    refFreqCSI-RS                       ARFCN-ValueNR                           OPTIONAL,
    measResultServingCell               MeasResultNR                            OPTIONAL,
    measResultNeighCellListNR           MeasResultListNR                        OPTIONAL,
    ...
}

-- TAG-MEASRESULT2NR-STOP
-- ASN1STOP

–	MeasResultIdleEUTRA
The IE MeasResultIdleEUTRA covers the E-UTRA measurement results performed in RRC_IDLE and RRC_INACTIVE.
MeasResultIdleEUTRA information element
-- ASN1START
-- TAG-MEASRESULTIDLEEUTRA-START

MeasResultIdleEUTRA-r16 ::= SEQUENCE {
    measResultsPerCarrierListIdleEUTRA-r16   SEQUENCE (SIZE (1.. maxFreqIdle-r16)) OF MeasResultsPerCarrierIdleEUTRA-r16,
    ...
}

MeasResultsPerCarrierIdleEUTRA-r16 ::=  SEQUENCE {
    carrierFreqEUTRA-r16                    ARFCN-ValueEUTRA,
    measResultsPerCellListIdleEUTRA-r16     SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxCellMeasIdle-r16)) OF MeasResultsPerCellIdleEUTRA-r16,
    ...
}

MeasResultsPerCellIdleEUTRA-r16 ::=     SEQUENCE {
    eutra-PhysCellId-r16                    EUTRA-PhysCellId,
    measIdleResultEUTRA-r16                 SEQUENCE {
       rsrp-ResultEUTRA-r16                     RSRP-RangeEUTRA                                                     OPTIONAL,
       rsrq-ResultEUTRA-r16                     RSRQ-RangeEUTRA-r16                                                 OPTIONAL
    },
    ...
}

-- TAG-MEASRESULTIDLEEUTRA-STOP
-- ASN1STOP



–	MeasResultIdleNR
The IE MeasResultIdleNR covers the NR measurement results performed in RRC_IDLE and RRC_INACTIVE.
MeasResultIdleNR information element
-- ASN1START
-- TAG-MEASRESULTIDLENR-START

MeasResultIdleNR-r16 ::=  SEQUENCE {
    measResultServingCell-r16 SEQUENCE {
        rsrp-Result-r16           RSRP-Range                                                                        OPTIONAL,
        rsrq-Result-r16           RSRQ-Range                                                                        OPTIONAL,
        resultsSSB-Indexes-r16    ResultsPerSSB-IndexList-r16                                                       OPTIONAL
    },
    measResultsPerCarrierListIdleNR-r16 SEQUENCE (SIZE (1.. maxFreqIdle-r16)) OF MeasResultsPerCarrierIdleNR-r16    OPTIONAL,
    ...
}

MeasResultsPerCarrierIdleNR-r16 ::=   SEQUENCE {
    carrierFreq-r16                       ARFCN-ValueNR,
    measResultsPerCellListIdleNR-r16      SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxCellMeasIdle-r16)) OF MeasResultsPerCellIdleNR-r16,
    ...
}

MeasResultsPerCellIdleNR-r16 ::=  SEQUENCE {
    physCellId-r16                    PhysCellId,
    measIdleResultNR-r16              SEQUENCE {
        rsrp-Result-r16                   RSRP-Range                                                              OPTIONAL,
        rsrq-Result-r16                   RSRQ-Range                                                              OPTIONAL,
        resultsSSB-Indexes-r16            ResultsPerSSB-IndexList-r16                                             OPTIONAL
    },
    ...,
    [[
    validityStatus-r18                MeasurementValidityDuration-r18                                             OPTIONAL
    ]]

}

ResultsPerSSB-IndexList-r16 ::=   SEQUENCE (SIZE (1.. maxNrofIndexesToReport)) OF ResultsPerSSB-IndexIdle-r16

ResultsPerSSB-IndexIdle-r16 ::=   SEQUENCE {
    ssb-Index-r16                     SSB-Index,
    ssb-Results-r16                   SEQUENCE {
        ssb-RSRP-Result-r16               RSRP-Range                                                              OPTIONAL,
        ssb-RSRQ-Result-r16               RSRQ-Range                                                              OPTIONAL
    }                                                                                                     OPTIONAL
}

-- TAG-MEASRESULTIDLENR-STOP
-- ASN1STOP



–	MeasResultRxTxTimeDiff
The IE MeasResultRxTxTimeDiff is used to provide Rx-Tx time difference measurement result.
MeasResultRxTxTimeDiff information element
-- ASN1START
-- TAG-MEASRESULTRXTXTIMEDIFF-START

MeasResultRxTxTimeDiff-r17 ::= SEQUENCE {
    rxTxTimeDiff-ue-r17            RxTxTimeDiff-r17      OPTIONAL,
    ...
}

-- TAG-MEASRESULTRXTXTIMEDIFF-STOP
-- ASN1STOP



–	MeasResultSCG-Failure
The IE MeasResultSCG-Failure is used to provide information regarding failures detected by the UE in (NG)EN-DC and NR-DC.
MeasResultSCG-Failure information element
-- ASN1START
-- TAG-MEASRESULTSCG-FAILURE-START

MeasResultSCG-Failure ::=           SEQUENCE {
    measResultPerMOList                 MeasResultList2NR,
    ...,
    [[
    locationInfo-r16                    LocationInfo-r16            OPTIONAL
    ]]
}

MeasResultList2NR ::=               SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxFreq)) OF MeasResult2NR

-- TAG-MEASRESULTSCG-FAILURE-STOP
-- ASN1STOP

–	MeasResultsSL
The IE MeasResultsSL covers measured results for NR sidelink communication/discovery/positioning.
MeasResultsSL information element
-- ASN1START
-- TAG-MEASRESULTSSL-START

MeasResultsSL-r16 ::=         SEQUENCE {
    measResultsListSL-r16         CHOICE {
        measResultNR-SL-r16           MeasResultNR-SL-r16,
        ...,
        [[
        measResultNR-SL-r18           MeasResultNR-SL-r18
        ]]
    },
    ...
}

MeasResultNR-SL-r16 ::=       SEQUENCE {
    measResultListCBR-NR-r16      SEQUENCE (SIZE (1.. maxNrofSL-PoolToMeasureNR-r16)) OF MeasResultCBR-NR-r16,
    ...
}

MeasResultCBR-NR-r16 ::=      SEQUENCE {
    sl-poolReportIdentity-r16     SL-ResourcePoolID-r16,
    sl-CBR-ResultsNR-r16          SL-CBR-r16,
    ...
}

MeasResultNR-SL-r18 ::=       SEQUENCE {
    measResultListCBR-DedicatedSL-PRS-r18 SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxNrofDedicatedSL-PRS-PoolToMeas-r18)) OF MeasResultCBR-DedicatedSL-PRS-r18,
    ...
}

MeasResultCBR-DedicatedSL-PRS-r18 ::= SEQUENCE {
    sl-PRS-ResourcePoolID-r18             SL-PRS-ResourcePoolID-r18,
    sL-CBR-ResultsDedicatedSL-PRS-RP-r18  SL-CBR-r16,
    ...
}

-- TAG-MEASRESULTSSL-STOP
-- ASN1STOP





–	MeasSequence
The IE MeasSequence is used to configure a recommended sequence for intra/inter-RAT intra/inter-frequency measurement.
MeasSequence information element
-- ASN1START
-- TAG-MEASSEQUENCE-START

MeasSequence-r18 ::=             INTEGER (1..maxMeasSequence-r18)

-- TAG-MEASSEQUENCE-STOP
-- ASN1STOP

–	MeasTriggerQuantityEUTRA
The IE MeasTriggerQuantityEUTRA is used to configure the trigger quantity and reporting range for E-UTRA measurements. The RSRP, RSRQ and SINR ranges correspond to RSRP-Range, RSRQ-Range and RS-SINR-Range in TS 36.331 [10], respectively.
MeasTriggerQuantityEUTRA information element
-- ASN1START
-- TAG-MEASTRIGGERQUANTITYEUTRA-START

MeasTriggerQuantityEUTRA::=                 CHOICE {
    rsrp                                        RSRP-RangeEUTRA,
    rsrq                                        RSRQ-RangeEUTRA,
    sinr                                        SINR-RangeEUTRA
}

RSRP-RangeEUTRA ::=                 INTEGER (0..97)

RSRQ-RangeEUTRA ::=                 INTEGER (0..34)

SINR-RangeEUTRA ::=                 INTEGER (0..127)

-- TAG-MEASTRIGGERQUANTITYEUTRA-STOP
-- ASN1STOP

–	MeasurementValidityDuration
The IE MeasurementValidityDuration indicates time values for validation of reported idle/inactive and reselection measurements as defined in TS 38.133[14]. Value s5 correspond to 5 seconds, value s10 correspond to 10 seconds and so on.
MeasurementValidityDuration information element
-- ASN1START
-- TAG-MEASUREMENTVALIDITYDURATION-START

MeasurementValidityDuration-r18 ::= ENUMERATED {s5, s10, s20, s50, s100, spare3, spare2, spare1}

-- TAG-MEASUREMENTVALIDITYDURATION-STOP
-- ASN1STOP

–	MeasWindowConfig
The IE MeasWindowConfig specifies the effective measurement window configuration for inter-RAT E-UTRA measurement.
MeasWindowConfig information element
-- ASN1START
-- TAG-MEASWINDOWCONFIG-START

MeasWindowConfig-r18 ::=    SEQUENCE {
    windowOffsetPeriodicity-r18 CHOICE {
        periodicityMs40-r18     INTEGER (0..39),
        periodicityMs80-r18     INTEGER (0..79),
        ...
    },
    windowDuration-r18              ENUMERATED {ms2, ms5, ms5dot5, spare1},
    ...
}

-- TAG-MEASWINDOWCONFIG-STOP
-- ASN1STOP



–	MobilityStateParameters
The IE MobilityStateParameters contains parameters to determine UE mobility state.
MobilityStateParameters information element
-- ASN1START
-- TAG-MOBILITYSTATEPARAMETERS-START

MobilityStateParameters ::=         SEQUENCE{
    t-Evaluation                        ENUMERATED {
                                            s30, s60, s120, s180, s240, spare3, spare2, spare1},
    t-HystNormal                        ENUMERATED {
                                            s30, s60, s120, s180, s240, spare3, spare2, spare1},
    n-CellChangeMedium                  INTEGER (1..16),
    n-CellChangeHigh                    INTEGER (1..16)
}

-- TAG-MOBILITYSTATEPARAMETERS-STOP
-- ASN1STOP



–	MRB-Identity
The IE MRB-Identity is used to identify a multicast MRB used by a UE.
MRB-Identity information element
-- ASN1START
-- TAG-MRB-IDENTITY-START

MRB-Identity-r17 ::=                    INTEGER (1..512)

-- TAG-MRB-IDENTITY-STOP
-- ASN1STOP

–	MsgA-ConfigCommon
The IE MsgA-ConfigCommon is used to configure the PRACH and PUSCH resource for transmission of MsgA in 2-step random access type procedure.
-- ASN1START
-- TAG-MSGACONFIGCOMMON-START

MsgA-ConfigCommon-r16 ::=           SEQUENCE {
    rach-ConfigCommonTwoStepRA-r16      RACH-ConfigCommonTwoStepRA-r16,
    msgA-PUSCH-Config-r16               MsgA-PUSCH-Config-r16                                      OPTIONAL --Cond InitialBWPConfig
}

-- TAG-MSGACONFIGCOMMON-STOP
-- ASN1STOP





–	MsgA-PUSCH-Config
The IE MsgA-PUSCH-Config is used to specify the PUSCH allocation for MsgA in 2-step random access type procedure.
MsgA-PUSCH-Config information element
-- ASN1START
-- TAG-MSGA-PUSCH-CONFIG-START

MsgA-PUSCH-Config-r16 ::=                      SEQUENCE {
    msgA-PUSCH-ResourceGroupA-r16                  MsgA-PUSCH-Resource-r16                                       OPTIONAL, -- Cond InitialBWPConfig
    msgA-PUSCH-ResourceGroupB-r16                  MsgA-PUSCH-Resource-r16                                       OPTIONAL, -- Cond GroupBConfigured
    msgA-TransformPrecoder-r16                    ENUMERATED {enabled, disabled}                                 OPTIONAL, -- Need S
    msgA-DataScramblingIndex-r16                   INTEGER (0..1023)                                             OPTIONAL, -- Need S
    msgA-DeltaPreamble-r16                         INTEGER (-1..6)                                               OPTIONAL  -- Need R
}

MsgA-PUSCH-Resource-r16 ::=                    SEQUENCE {
    msgA-MCS-r16                                   INTEGER (0..15),
    nrofSlotsMsgA-PUSCH-r16                        INTEGER (1..4),
    nrofMsgA-PO-PerSlot-r16                        ENUMERATED {one, two, three, six},
    msgA-PUSCH-TimeDomainOffset-r16                INTEGER (1..32),
    msgA-PUSCH-TimeDomainAllocation-r16            INTEGER (1..maxNrofUL-Allocations)                            OPTIONAL, -- Need S
    startSymbolAndLengthMsgA-PO-r16                INTEGER (0..127)                                              OPTIONAL, -- Need S
    mappingTypeMsgA-PUSCH-r16                      ENUMERATED {typeA, typeB}                                     OPTIONAL, -- Need S
    guardPeriodMsgA-PUSCH-r16                      INTEGER (0..3)                                                OPTIONAL, -- Need R
    guardBandMsgA-PUSCH-r16                        INTEGER (0..1),
    frequencyStartMsgA-PUSCH-r16                   INTEGER (0..maxNrofPhysicalResourceBlocks-1),
    nrofPRBs-PerMsgA-PO-r16                        INTEGER (1..32),
    nrofMsgA-PO-FDM-r16                            ENUMERATED {one, two, four, eight},
    msgA-IntraSlotFrequencyHopping-r16             ENUMERATED {enabled}                                          OPTIONAL, -- Need R
    msgA-HoppingBits-r16                           BIT STRING (SIZE(2))                                          OPTIONAL, -- Cond FreqHopConfigured
    msgA-DMRS-Config-r16                           MsgA-DMRS-Config-r16,
    nrofDMRS-Sequences-r16                         INTEGER (1..2),
    msgA-Alpha-r16                                 ENUMERATED {alpha0, alpha04, alpha05, alpha06,
                                                               alpha07, alpha08, alpha09, alpha1}                OPTIONAL, -- Need S
    interlaceIndexFirstPO-MsgA-PUSCH-r16           INTEGER (1..10)                                               OPTIONAL, -- Need R
    nrofInterlacesPerMsgA-PO-r16                   INTEGER (1..10)                                               OPTIONAL, -- Need R
    ...
}

MsgA-DMRS-Config-r16 ::=                       SEQUENCE {
    msgA-DMRS-AdditionalPosition-r16               ENUMERATED {pos0, pos1, pos3}                                 OPTIONAL, -- Need S
    msgA-MaxLength-r16                             ENUMERATED {len2}                                             OPTIONAL, -- Need S
    msgA-PUSCH-DMRS-CDM-Group-r16                  INTEGER (0..1)                                                OPTIONAL, -- Need S
    msgA-PUSCH-NrofPorts-r16                       INTEGER (0..1)                                                OPTIONAL, -- Need S
    msgA-ScramblingID0-r16                         INTEGER (0..65535)                                            OPTIONAL, -- Need S
    msgA-ScramblingID1-r16                         INTEGER (0..65535)                                            OPTIONAL  -- Need S
}

-- TAG-MSGA-PUSCH-CONFIG-STOP
-- ASN1STOP









–	MultiFrequencyBandListNR
The IE MultiFrequencyBandListNR is used to configure a list of one or multiple NR frequency bands.
MultiFrequencyBandListNR information element
-- ASN1START
-- TAG-MULTIFREQUENCYBANDLISTNR-START

MultiFrequencyBandListNR ::=        SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxNrofMultiBands)) OF FreqBandIndicatorNR

-- TAG-MULTIFREQUENCYBANDLISTNR-STOP
-- ASN1STOP

–	MultiFrequencyBandListNR-SIB
The IE MultiFrequencyBandListNR-SIB indicates the list of frequency bands, for which cell (re-)selection parameters are common, and a list of additionalPmax and additionalSpectrumEmission.
MultiFrequencyBandListNR-SIB information element
-- ASN1START
-- TAG-MULTIFREQUENCYBANDLISTNR-SIB-START

MultiFrequencyBandListNR-SIB ::=            SEQUENCE (SIZE (1.. maxNrofMultiBands)) OF NR-MultiBandInfo

NR-MultiBandInfo ::=                        SEQUENCE {
    freqBandIndicatorNR                         FreqBandIndicatorNR         OPTIONAL,   -- Cond OptULNotSIB2
    nr-NS-PmaxList                              NR-NS-PmaxList              OPTIONAL    -- Need S
}

MultiFrequencyBandListNR-SIB-v1760 ::=      SEQUENCE (SIZE (1.. maxNrofMultiBands)) OF NR-MultiBandInfo-v1760

NR-MultiBandInfo-v1760 ::=                  SEQUENCE {
    nr-NS-PmaxList-v1760                        NR-NS-PmaxList-v1760        OPTIONAL    -- Need S
}

MultiFrequencyBandListNR-Aerial-SIB-r18 ::= SEQUENCE (SIZE (1.. maxNrofMultiBands)) OF NR-MultiBandInfoAerial-r18

NR-MultiBandInfoAerial-r18 ::=              SEQUENCE {
    freqBandIndicatorNR-Aerial-r18              FreqBandIndicatorNR         OPTIONAL,   -- Cond OptULNotSIB2
    nr-NS-PmaxListAerial-r18                    NR-NS-PmaxListAerial-r18    OPTIONAL    -- Need S
}

-- TAG-MULTIFREQUENCYBANDLISTNR-SIB-STOP
-- ASN1STOP





–	MUSIM-GapConfig
The IE MUSIM-GapConfig specifies the MUSIM gap configuration and controls setup/release of MUSIM gaps.
MUSIM-GapConfig information element
-- ASN1START
-- TAG-MUSIM-GAPCONFIG-START

MUSIM-GapConfig-r17 ::=                  SEQUENCE {
    musim-GapToReleaseList-r17               SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..3)) OF MUSIM-GapId-r17               OPTIONAL, -- Need N
    musim-GapToAddModList-r17                SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..3)) OF MUSIM-Gap-r17                 OPTIONAL, -- Need N
    musim-AperiodicGap-r17                   MUSIM-GapInfo-r17                                       OPTIONAL, -- Need N
   ...,
    [[
    musim-GapToAddModListExt-v1820           SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..3)) OF MUSIM-GapExt-v1820            OPTIONAL, -- Need N
    musim-GapKeep-r18                        ENUMERATED {true}                                       OPTIONAL  -- Need N
    ]]
}

MUSIM-Gap-r17 ::=                        SEQUENCE {
    musim-GapId-r17                          MUSIM-GapId-r17,
    musim-GapInfo-r17                        MUSIM-GapInfo-r17
}

MUSIM-GapExt-v1820 ::=                   SEQUENCE {
    gapPriority-r18                          GapPriority-r17
}

-- TAG-MUSIM-GAPCONFIG-STOP
-- ASN1STOP



–	MUSIM-GapId
The IE MUSIM-GapId is used to identify UE periodic MUSIM gap(s) to add, modify or release.
MUSIM-GapId information element
-- ASN1START
-- TAG-MUSIM-GAPID-START

MUSIM-GapId-r17 ::=                  INTEGER (0..2)

-- TAG-MUSIM-GAPID-STOP
-- ASN1STOP

–	MUSIM-GapInfo
The IE MUSIM-GapInfo is used to indicate MUSIM gap parameters.
MUSIM-GapInfo information element
-- ASN1START
-- TAG-MUSIM-GAPINFO-START

MUSIM-GapInfo-r17 ::=               SEQUENCE {
    musim-Starting-SFN-AndSubframe-r17  MUSIM-Starting-SFN-AndSubframe-r17             OPTIONAL, -- Cond aperiodic
    musim-GapLength-r17                 ENUMERATED {ms3, ms4, ms6, ms10, ms20}         OPTIONAL, -- Cond gapSetup
    musim-GapRepetitionAndOffset-r17    CHOICE {
        ms20-r17                            INTEGER (0..19),
        ms40-r17                            INTEGER (0..39),
        ms80-r17                            INTEGER (0..79),
        ms160-r17                           INTEGER (0..159),
        ms320-r17                           INTEGER (0..319),
        ms640-r17                           INTEGER (0..639),
        ms1280-r17                          INTEGER (0..1279),
        ms2560-r17                          INTEGER (0..2559),
        ms5120-r17                          INTEGER (0..5119),
        ...
    }                                                                                  OPTIONAL -- Cond periodic
}

MUSIM-Starting-SFN-AndSubframe-r17 ::= SEQUENCE {
    starting-SFN-r17                       INTEGER (0..1023),
    startingSubframe-r17                   INTEGER (0..9)
}

-- TAG-MUSIM-GAPINFO-STOP
-- ASN1STOP





–	N3C-IndirectPathConfigRelay
The IE N3C-IndirectPathConfigRelay indicates the N3C indirect path related configuration used by N3C relay UE in MP.
N3C-IndirectPathConfigRelay information element
-- ASN1START
-- TAG-N3C-INDIRECTPATHCONFIGRELAY-START

N3C-IndirectPathConfigRelay-r18 ::=    SEQUENCE {
    n3c-MappingToReleaseList-r18           SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxLC-ID)) OF SL-RemoteUE-RB-Identity-r17        OPTIONAL, -- Need N
    n3c-MappingToAddModList-r18            SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxLC-ID)) OF N3C-MappingConfig-r18              OPTIONAL, -- Need N
    ...
}

N3C-MappingConfig-r18 ::=              SEQUENCE {
    n3c-RemoteUE-RB-Identity-r18           SL-RemoteUE-RB-Identity-r17,
    n3c-RLC-ChannelUu-r18                  Uu-RelayRLC-ChannelID-r17,
    ...
}

-- TAG-N3C-INDIRECTPATHCONFIGRELAY-STOP
-- ASN1STOP



–	N3C-IndirectPathAddChange
The IE N3C-IndirectPathAddChange indicates the N3C indirect path related configuration used by N3C remote UE.
N3C-IndirectPathAddChange information element
-- ASN1START
-- TAG-N3C-INDIRECTPATHADDCHANGE-START

N3C-IndirectPathAddChange-r18 ::=  SEQUENCE {
    n3c-RelayIdentification-r18        N3C-RelayUE-Info-r18,
    ...
}

-- TAG-N3C-INDIRECTPATHADDCHANGE-STOP
-- ASN1STOP



–	N3C-RelayUE-Info
The IE N3C-RelayUE-Info includes the information of N3C relay UE.
N3C-RelayUE-Info information element
-- ASN1START
-- TAG-N3CRELAYUEINFO-START

N3C-RelayUE-Info-r18 ::=      SEQUENCE {
    n3c-CellGlobalId-r18          SEQUENCE {
        n3c-PLMN-Id-r18               PLMN-Identity,
        n3c-CellIdentity-r18          CellIdentity
    },
    n3c-C-RNTI-r18                RNTI-Value
}

-- TAG-N3CRELAYUEINFO-STOP
-- ASN1STOP

–	NCR-AperiodicFwdConfig
The IE NCR-AperiodicFwdConfig is used to configure a list of aperiodic forwarding time resources for NCR-Fwd access link (see TS 38.212 [17], clause 7.3.1.3.9 and TS 38.213 [13], clause 20).
NCR-AperiodicFwdConfig information element
-- ASN1START
-- TAG-NCR-APERIODICFWDCONFIG-START

NCR-AperiodicFwdConfig-r18 ::= SEQUENCE {
    aperiodicFwdTimeRsrcToAddModList-r18  SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxNrofAperiodicFwdTimeResource-r18)) OF NCR-AperiodicFwdTimeResource-r18
                                                                                                        OPTIONAL, -- Need N
    aperiodicFwdTimeRsrcToReleaseList-r18 SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxNrofAperiodicFwdTimeResource-r18)) OF NCR-AperiodicFwdTimeResourceId-r18
                                                                                                        OPTIONAL, -- Need N
    referenceSCS-r18                      SubcarrierSpacing                                             OPTIONAL, -- Need M
    aperiodicBeamFieldWidth-r18           INTEGER (1..6)                                                OPTIONAL, -- Need M
    numberOfFields-r18                    INTEGER (1..32)                                               OPTIONAL, -- Need M
    ...
}

NCR-AperiodicFwdTimeResource-r18 ::= SEQUENCE {
    aperiodicFwdTimeRsrcId-r18           NCR-AperiodicFwdTimeResourceId-r18,
    slotOffsetAperiodic-r18              INTEGER (0..14),
    symbolOffset-r18                     INTEGER (0..maxNrofSymbols-1),
    durationInSymbols-r18                INTEGER (1..28),
    ...
}

NCR-AperiodicFwdTimeResourceId-r18 ::= INTEGER (0..maxNrofAperiodicFwdTimeResource-1-r18)

-- TAG-NCR-APERIODICFWDCONFIG-STOP
-- ASN1STOP



–	NCR-FwdConfig
The IE NCR-FwdConfig contains configuration related to periodic, aperiodic and semi-persistent beam indication for NCR-Fwd access link.
NCR-FwdConfig information element
-- ASN1START
-- TAG-NCR-FWDCONFIG-START

NCR-FwdConfig-r18 ::=                SEQUENCE {
    periodicFwdRsrcSetToAddModList-r18   SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxNrofPeriodicFwdResourceSet-r18)) OF NCR-PeriodicFwdResourceSet-r18
                                                                                                            OPTIONAL,  -- Need N
    periodicFwdRsrcSetToReleaseList-r18  SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxNrofPeriodicFwdResourceSet-r18)) OF NCR-PeriodicFwdResourceSetId-r18
                                                                                                            OPTIONAL,  -- Need N
    aperiodicFwdConfig-r18                      SetupRelease {NCR-AperiodicFwdConfig-r18}                   OPTIONAL,   -- Need M
    semiPersistentFwdRsrcSetToAddModList-r18    SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxNrofSemiPersistentFwdResourceSet-r18)) OF
                                                                    NCR-SemiPersistentFwdResourceSet-r18    OPTIONAL,  -- Need N
    semiPersistentFwdRsrcSetToReleaseList-r18   SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxNrofSemiPersistentFwdResourceSet-r18)) OF
                                                                    NCR-SemiPersistentFwdResourceSetId-r18  OPTIONAL,  -- Need N
    ...
}

-- TAG-NCR-FWDCONFIG-STOP
-- ASN1STOP



–	NCR-PeriodicityAndOffset
The IE NCR-PeriodicityAndOffset is used to indicate the periodicity (in slot or ms) and offset (in slot) for periodic forwarding resource and semi-persistent forwarding resource.
NCR-PeriodicityAndOffset information element
-- ASN1START
-- TAG-NCR-PERIODICITYANDOFFSET-START

NCR-PeriodicityAndOffset-r18 ::= CHOICE {
    slot                             NCR-SlotPeriodicityAndSlotOffset-r18,
    ms                               NCR-MsPeriodicityAndSlotOffset-r18
}

NCR-SlotPeriodicityAndSlotOffset-r18 ::=  CHOICE {
    sl1                                       NULL,
    sl2                                       INTEGER(0..1),
    sl4                                       INTEGER(0..3),
    sl5                                       INTEGER(0..4),
    sl8                                       INTEGER(0..7),
    sl10                                      INTEGER(0..9),
    sl16                                      INTEGER(0..15),
    sl20                                      INTEGER(0..19),
    sl32                                      INTEGER(0..31),
    sl40                                      INTEGER(0..39),
    sl64                                      INTEGER(0..63),
    sl80                                      INTEGER(0..79),
    sl128                                     INTEGER(0..127),
    sl160                                     INTEGER(0..159),
    sl256                                     INTEGER(0..255),
    sl320                                     INTEGER(0..319),
    sl512                                     INTEGER(0..511),
    sl640                                     INTEGER(0..639),
    sl1024                                    INTEGER(0..1023),
    sl1280                                    INTEGER(0..1279),
    sl2560                                    INTEGER(0..2559),
    sl5120                                    INTEGER(0..5119),
    sl10240                                   INTEGER(0..10239),
     ...
}

NCR-MsPeriodicityAndSlotOffset-r18 ::=    CHOICE {
    ms1                                       INTEGER(0..15),
    ms2                                       INTEGER(0..31),
    ms4                                       INTEGER(0..63),
    ms5                                       INTEGER(0..79),
    ms8                                       INTEGER(0..127),
    ms10                                      INTEGER(0..159),
    ms16                                      INTEGER(0..255),
    ms20                                      INTEGER(0..319),
    ms32                                      INTEGER(0..511),
    ms40                                      INTEGER(0..639),
    ms64                                      INTEGER(0..1023),
    ms80                                      INTEGER(0..1279),
    ms128                                     INTEGER(0..2047),
    ms160                                     INTEGER(0..2559),
    ms256                                     INTEGER(0..4095),
    ms320                                     INTEGER(0..5119),
    ms512                                     INTEGER(0..8191),
    ms640                                     INTEGER(0..10239),
    ms1024                                    INTEGER(0..16383),
    ms1280                                    INTEGER(0..20479),
    ms2560                                    INTEGER(0..40959),
    ms5120                                    INTEGER(0..81919),
    ms10240                                   INTEGER(0..163839),
    ...
}

-- TAG-NCR-PERIODICITYANDOFFSET-STOP
-- ASN1STOP

–	NCR-PeriodicFwdResourceSet
The IE NCR-PeriodicFwdResourceSet is used to configure a list of periodic forwarding resources for NCR-Fwd access link (see TS 38.213 [13], clause 20). Each periodic forwarding configuration includes a list of periodic forwarding resources, a common periodicity and a common reference SCS.
NCR-PeriodicFwdResourceSet information element
-- ASN1START
-- TAG-NCR-PERIODICFWDRESOURCESET-START

NCR-PeriodicFwdResourceSet-r18 ::=  SEQUENCE {
    periodicFwdRsrcSetId-r18            NCR-PeriodicFwdResourceSetId-r18,
    periodicFwdRsrcToAddModList-r18     SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxNrofPeriodicFwdResource-r18)) OF NCR-PeriodicFwdResource-r18
                                                                                                            OPTIONAL,  -- Need N
    periodicFwdRsrcToReleaseList-r18    SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxNrofPeriodicFwdResource-r18)) OF NCR-PeriodicFwdResourceId-r18
                                                                                                            OPTIONAL,  -- Need N
    referenceSCS-r18                    SubcarrierSpacing                                                   OPTIONAL,  -- Need M
    priorityFlag-r18                    ENUMERATED {true}                                                   OPTIONAL,  -- Need R
    ...
}

NCR-PeriodicFwdResource-r18 ::=  SEQUENCE {
    periodicFwdRsrcId-r18            NCR-PeriodicFwdResourceId-r18,
    beamIndex-r18                    INTEGER (0..63),
    periodicTimeRsrc-r18             SEQUENCE {
        periodicityAndOffset-r18     NCR-PeriodicityAndOffset-r18,
        symbolOffset-r18             INTEGER (0..maxNrofSymbols-1),
        durationInSymbols-r18        INTEGER (1..112)
    },
    ...
}

NCR-PeriodicFwdResourceId-r18 ::= INTEGER (0..maxNrofPeriodicFwdResource-1-r18)

-- TAG-NCR-PERIODICFWDRESOURCESET-STOP
-- ASN1STOP



–	NCR-PeriodicFwdResourceSetId
The IE NCR-PeriodicFwdResourceSetId is used to identify one NCR-PeriodicFwdResourceSet.
NCR-PeriodicFwdResourceSetId information element
-- ASN1START
-- TAG-NCR-PERIODICFWDRESOURCESETID-START

NCR-PeriodicFwdResourceSetId-r18 ::= INTEGER (0..maxNrofPeriodicFwdResourceSet-1-r18)

-- TAG-NCR-PERIODICFWDRESOURCESETID-STOP
-- ASN1STOP

–	NCR-SemiPersistentFwdResourceSet
The IE NCR-SemiPersistentFwdResourceSet is used to configure a list of semi-persistent forwarding resources for NCR-Fwd access link (see TS 38.213 [13], clause 20). Each semi-persistent forwarding resource configuration includes a list of semi-persistent forwarding resources, a common periodicity and a common reference SCS.
NCR-SemiPersistentFwdResourceSet information element
-- ASN1START
-- TAG-NCR-SEMIPERSISTENTFWDRESOURCESET-START

NCR-SemiPersistentFwdResourceSet-r18 ::= SEQUENCE {
    semiPersistentFwdRsrcSetId-r18           NCR-SemiPersistentFwdResourceSetId-r18,
    semiPersistentFwdRsrcToAddModList-r18    SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxNrofSemiPersistentFwdResource-r18)) OF
                                                     NCR-SemiPersistentFwdResource-r18                       OPTIONAL,   -- Need N
    semiPersistentFwdRsrcToReleaseList-r18   SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxNrofSemiPersistentFwdResource-r18)) OF
                                                     NCR-SemiPersistentFwdResourceId-r18                     OPTIONAL,  -- Need N
    referenceSCS-r18                         SubcarrierSpacing                                               OPTIONAL,  -- Need M
    priorityFlag-r18                         ENUMERATED {true}                                               OPTIONAL,   -- Need R
    ...
}

NCR-SemiPersistentFwdResource-r18 ::= SEQUENCE {
    semiPersistentFwdRsrcId-r18           NCR-SemiPersistentFwdResourceId-r18,
    beamIndex-r18                         INTEGER (0..63),
    semiPersistentTimeRsrc-r18            SEQUENCE {
        periodicityAndOffset-r18              NCR-PeriodicityAndOffset-r18,
        symbolOffset-r18                      INTEGER (0..maxNrofSymbols-1),
        durationInSymbols-r18                 INTEGER (1..112)
    },
    ...
}

NCR-SemiPersistentFwdResourceId-r18 ::= INTEGER (0..maxNrofSemiPersistentFwdResource-1-r18)

-- TAG-NCR-SEMIPERSISTENTFWDRESOURCESET-STOP
-- ASN1STOP



–	NCR-SemiPersistentFwdResourceSetId
The IE NCR-SemiPersistentFwdResourceSetId is used to identify one NCR-SemiPersistentFwdResourceSet.
NCR-SemiPersistentFwdResourceSetId information element
-- ASN1START
-- TAG-NCR-SEMIPERSISTENTFWDRESOURCESETID-START

NCR-SemiPersistentFwdResourceSetId-r18 ::= INTEGER (0..maxNrofSemiPersistentFwdResourceSet-1-r18)

-- TAG-NCR-SEMIPERSISTENTFWDRESOURCESETID-STOP
-- ASN1STOP

–	NeedForGapsConfigNR
The IE NeedForGapsConfigNR contains configuration related to the reporting of measurement gap requirement information.
NeedForGapsConfigNR information element
-- ASN1START
-- TAG-NeedForGapsConfigNR-START

NeedForGapsConfigNR-r16 ::=        SEQUENCE {
    requestedTargetBandFilterNR-r16       SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxBands)) OF FreqBandIndicatorNR               OPTIONAL          -- Need R
}

-- TAG-NeedForGapsConfigNR-STOP
-- ASN1STOP



–	NeedForGapsInfoNR
The IE NeedForGapsInfoNR indicates whether measurement gap is required for the UE to perform SSB based measurements on an NR target band while NR-DC or NE-DC is not configured.
NeedForGapsInfoNR information element
-- ASN1START
-- TAG-NeedForGapsInfoNR-START

NeedForGapsInfoNR-r16 ::=        SEQUENCE {
    intraFreq-needForGap-r16      NeedForGapsIntraFreqList-r16,
    interFreq-needForGap-r16      NeedForGapsBandListNR-r16
}

NeedForGapsIntraFreqList-r16 ::=          SEQUENCE (SIZE (1.. maxNrofServingCells)) OF NeedForGapsIntraFreq-r16

NeedForGapsBandListNR-r16 ::=             SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxBands)) OF NeedForGapsNR-r16

NeedForGapsIntraFreq-r16  ::=                 SEQUENCE {
    servCellId-r16                               ServCellIndex,
    gapIndicationIntra-r16                       ENUMERATED {gap, no-gap}
}

NeedForGapsNR-r16  ::=                        SEQUENCE {
    bandNR-r16                                   FreqBandIndicatorNR,
    gapIndication-r16                            ENUMERATED {gap, no-gap}
}

-- TAG-NeedForGapsInfoNR-STOP
-- ASN1STOP







–	NeedForGapNCSG-ConfigEUTRA
The IE NeedForGapNCSG-ConfigEUTRA contains configuration related to the reporting of measurement gap and NCSG requirement information.
NeedForGapNCSG-ConfigEUTRA information element
-- ASN1START
-- TAG-NeedForGapNCSG-ConfigEUTRA-START

NeedForGapNCSG-ConfigEUTRA-r17 ::=        SEQUENCE {
    requestedTargetBandFilterNCSG-EUTRA-r17   SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxBandsEUTRA)) OF FreqBandIndicatorEUTRA     OPTIONAL    -- Need R
}

-- TAG-NeedForGapNCSG-ConfigEUTRA-STOP
-- ASN1STOP



–	NeedForGapNCSG-ConfigNR
The IE NeedForGapNCSG-ConfigNR contains configuration related to the reporting of measurement gap and NCSG requirement information.
NeedForGapNCSG-ConfigNR information element
-- ASN1START
-- TAG-NEEDFORGAPNCSG-CONFIGNR-START

NeedForGapNCSG-ConfigNR-r17 ::=        SEQUENCE {
    requestedTargetBandFilterNCSG-NR-r17   SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxBands)) OF FreqBandIndicatorNR          OPTIONAL          -- Need R
}

-- TAG-NEEDFORGAPNCSG-CONFIGNR-STOP
-- ASN1STOP



–	NeedForGapNCSG-InfoEUTRA
The IE NeedForGapNCSG-InfoEUTRA indicates whether measurement gap or NCSG is required for the UE to perform measurements on an EUTRA target band while NR-DC or NE-DC is not configured.
NeedForGapNCSG-InfoEUTRA information element
-- ASN1START
-- TAG-NEEDFORGAPNCSG-INFOEUTRA-START

NeedForGapNCSG-InfoEUTRA-r17 ::=   SEQUENCE {
    needForNCSG-EUTRA-r17              SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxBandsEUTRA)) OF NeedForNCSG-EUTRA-r17
}

NeedForNCSG-EUTRA-r17  ::=         SEQUENCE {
    bandEUTRA-r17                      FreqBandIndicatorEUTRA,
    gapIndication-r17                  ENUMERATED {gap, ncsg, nogap-noncsg}
}

-- TAG-NEEDFORGAPNCSG-INFOEUTRA-STOP
-- ASN1STOP





–	NeedForGapNCSG-InfoNR
The IE NeedForGapNCSG-InfoNR indicates whether measurement gap or NCSG is required for the UE to perform SSB based measurements on an NR target band while NR-DC or NE-DC is not configured.
NeedForGapNCSG-InfoNR information element
-- ASN1START
-- TAG-NEEDFORGAPNCSG-INFONR-START

NeedForGapNCSG-InfoNR-r17 ::=     SEQUENCE {
    intraFreq-needForNCSG-r17         NeedForNCSG-IntraFreqList-r17,
    interFreq-needForNCSG-r17         NeedForNCSG-BandListNR-r17
}

NeedForNCSG-IntraFreqList-r17 ::= SEQUENCE (SIZE (1.. maxNrofServingCells)) OF NeedForNCSG-IntraFreq-r17

NeedForNCSG-BandListNR-r17 ::=    SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxBands)) OF NeedForNCSG-NR-r17

NeedForNCSG-IntraFreq-r17  ::=    SEQUENCE {
    servCellId-r17                    ServCellIndex,
    gapIndicationIntra-r17            ENUMERATED {gap, ncsg, nogap-noncsg}
}

NeedForNCSG-NR-r17  ::=           SEQUENCE {
    bandNR-r17                        FreqBandIndicatorNR,
    gapIndication-r17                 ENUMERATED {gap, ncsg, nogap-noncsg}
}

-- TAG-NEEDFORGAPNCSG-INFONR-STOP
-- ASN1STOP







–	NeedForInterruptionInfoNR
The IE NeedForInterruptionInfoNR indicates whether interruption is needed for the UE to perform SSB based measurements on an NR target band without measurement gap while NR-DC or NE-DC is not configured.
NeedForInterruptionInfoNR information element
-- ASN1START
-- TAG-NeedForInterruptionInfoNR-START

NeedForInterruptionInfoNR-r18 ::=    SEQUENCE {
    intraFreq-needForInterruption-r18    NeedForInterruptionIntraFreqList-r18,
    interFreq-needForInterruption-r18    NeedForInterruptionBandListNR-r18,
    ...
}

NeedForInterruptionIntraFreqList-r18 ::=          SEQUENCE (SIZE (1.. maxNrofServingCells)) OF NeedForInterruptionNR-r18

NeedForInterruptionBandListNR-r18 ::=             SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxBands)) OF NeedForInterruptionNR-r18

NeedForInterruptionNR-r18  ::=       SEQUENCE {
    interruptionIndication-r18           ENUMERATED {no-gap-with-interruption, no-gap-no-interruption}                     OPTIONAL
}

-- TAG-NeedForInterruptionInfoNR-STOP
-- ASN1STOP





–	NextHopChainingCount
The IE NextHopChainingCount is used to update the KgNB key and corresponds to parameter NCC: See TS 33.501 [11].
NextHopChainingCount information element
-- ASN1START
-- TAG-NEXTHOPCHAININGCOUNT-START

NextHopChainingCount ::=                    INTEGER (0..7)

-- TAG-NEXTHOPCHAININGCOUNT-STOP
-- ASN1STOP

–	NG-5G-S-TMSI
The IE NG-5G-S-TMSI contains a 5G S-Temporary Mobile Subscription Identifier (5G-S-TMSI), a temporary UE identity provided by the 5GC which uniquely identifies the UE within the tracking area, see TS 23.003 [21].
NG-5G-S-TMSI information element
-- ASN1START
-- TAG-NG-5G-S-TMSI-START

NG-5G-S-TMSI ::=                         BIT STRING (SIZE (48))

-- TAG-NG-5G-S-TMSI-STOP
-- ASN1STOP

–	NonCellDefiningSSB
The IE NonCellDefiningSSB is used to configure a NCD-SSB to be used while the UE operates in an RedCap-specific initial BWP that does not contain the CD-SSB or a dedicated BWP that does not contain the CD-SSB.
NonCellDefiningSSB information element
-- ASN1START
-- TAG-NONCELLDEFININGSSB-START

NonCellDefiningSSB-r17 ::=      SEQUENCE {
    absoluteFrequencySSB-r17        ARFCN-ValueNR,
    ssb-Periodicity-r17             ENUMERATED { ms5, ms10, ms20, ms40, ms80, ms160, spare2, spare1 }       OPTIONAL,   -- Need S
    ssb-TimeOffset-r17              ENUMERATED { ms5, ms10, ms15, ms20, ms40, ms80, spare2, spare1 }      OPTIONAL,   -- Need S
    ...
}

-- TAG-NONCELLDEFININGSSB-STOP
-- ASN1STOP



–	NPN-Identity
The IE NPN-Identity includes either a list of CAG-IDs or a list of NIDs per PLMN Identity. Further information regarding how to set the IE is specified in TS 23.003 [21].
NPN-Identity information element
-- ASN1START
-- TAG-NPN-IDENTITY-START

NPN-Identity-r16 ::=             CHOICE {
    pni-npn-r16                      SEQUENCE {
        plmn-Identity-r16                PLMN-Identity,
        cag-IdentityList-r16             SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxNPN-r16)) OF CAG-IdentityInfo-r16
    },
    snpn-r16                         SEQUENCE {
        plmn-Identity-r16                PLMN-Identity,
        nid-List-r16                     SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxNPN-r16)) OF NID-r16
    }
}

CAG-IdentityInfo-r16 ::=         SEQUENCE {
    cag-Identity-r16                 BIT STRING (SIZE (32)),
    manualCAGselectionAllowed-r16    ENUMERATED {true}                         OPTIONAL   -- Need R
}

NID-r16 ::=                      BIT STRING (SIZE (44))

-- TAG-NPN-IDENTITY-STOP
-- ASN1STOP



–	NPN-IdentityInfoList
The IE NPN-IdentityInfoList includes a list of NPN identity information.
NPN-IdentityInfoList information element
-- ASN1START
-- TAG-NPN-IDENTITYINFOLIST-START

NPN-IdentityInfoList-r16 ::=     SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxNPN-r16)) OF NPN-IdentityInfo-r16


NPN-IdentityInfo-r16 ::=         SEQUENCE {
    npn-IdentityList-r16             SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxNPN-r16)) OF NPN-Identity-r16,
    trackingAreaCode-r16             TrackingAreaCode,
    ranac-r16                        RAN-AreaCode                                                OPTIONAL,       -- Need R
    cellIdentity-r16                 CellIdentity,
    cellReservedForOperatorUse-r16   ENUMERATED {reserved, notReserved},
    iab-Support-r16                  ENUMERATED {true}                                           OPTIONAL,       -- Need S
    ...,
    [[
    gNB-ID-Length-r17                INTEGER (22..32)                                            OPTIONAL        -- Need R
    ]],
    [[
    mobileIAB-Support-r18            ENUMERATED {true}                                           OPTIONAL        -- Need S
    ]]
}

-- TAG-NPN-IDENTITYINFOLIST-STOP
-- ASN1STOP



–	NR-DL-PRS-PDC-Info
The IE NR-DL-PRS-PDC-Info defines downlink PRS configuration for PDC.
NR-DL-PRS-PDC-Info information element
-- ASN1START
-- TAG-NR-DL-PRS-PDC-INFO-START

NR-DL-PRS-PDC-Info-r17 ::=    SEQUENCE {
    nr-DL-PRS-PDC-ResourceSet-r17          NR-DL-PRS-PDC-ResourceSet-r17                    OPTIONAL, -- Need R
    ...
}

NR-DL-PRS-PDC-ResourceSet-r17 ::=    SEQUENCE {
    periodicityAndOffset-r17     NR-DL-PRS-Periodicity-and-ResourceSetSlotOffset-r17,
    numSymbols-r17               ENUMERATED {n2, n4, n6, n12, n1-v1800, spare3, spare2, spare1},
    dl-PRS-ResourceBandwidth-r17        INTEGER (1..63),
    dl-PRS-StartPRB-r17                 INTEGER (0..2176),
    resourceList-r17             SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxNrofPRS-ResourcesPerSet-r17)) OF NR-DL-PRS-Resource-r17,
    repFactorAndTimeGap-r17      RepFactorAndTimeGap-r17                                    OPTIONAL,   -- Need S
    ...
}

NR-DL-PRS-Periodicity-and-ResourceSetSlotOffset-r17 ::= CHOICE {
    scs15-r17       CHOICE {
                        n4-r17                  INTEGER (0..3),
                        n5-r17                  INTEGER (0..4),
                        n8-r17                  INTEGER (0..7),
                        n10-r17                 INTEGER (0..9),
                        n16-r17                 INTEGER (0..15),
                        n20-r17                 INTEGER (0..19),
                        n32-r17                 INTEGER (0..31),
                        n40-r17                 INTEGER (0..39),
                        n64-r17                 INTEGER (0..63),
                        n80-r17                 INTEGER (0..79),
                        n160-r17                INTEGER (0..159),
                        n320-r17                INTEGER (0..319),
                        n640-r17                INTEGER (0..639),
                        n1280-r17               INTEGER (0..1279),
                        n2560-r17               INTEGER (0..2559),
                        n5120-r17               INTEGER (0..5119),
                        n10240-r17              INTEGER (0..10239),
                        ...
    },
    scs30-r17       CHOICE {
                        n8-r17                  INTEGER (0..7),
                        n10-r17                 INTEGER (0..9),
                        n16-r17                 INTEGER (0..15),
                        n20-r17                 INTEGER (0..19),
                        n32-r17                 INTEGER (0..31),
                        n40-r17                 INTEGER (0..39),
                        n64-r17                 INTEGER (0..63),
                        n80-r17                 INTEGER (0..79),
                        n128-r17                INTEGER (0..127),
                        n160-r17                INTEGER (0..159),
                        n320-r17                INTEGER (0..319),
                        n640-r17                INTEGER (0..639),
                        n1280-r17               INTEGER (0..1279),
                        n2560-r17               INTEGER (0..2559),
                        n5120-r17               INTEGER (0..5119),
                        n10240-r17              INTEGER (0..10239),
                        n20480-r17              INTEGER (0..20479),
                        ...
    },
    scs60-r17       CHOICE {
                        n16-r17                 INTEGER (0..15),
                        n20-r17                 INTEGER (0..19),
                        n32-r17                 INTEGER (0..31),
                        n40-r17                 INTEGER (0..39),
                        n64-r17                 INTEGER (0..63),
                        n80-r17                 INTEGER (0..79),
                        n128-r17                INTEGER (0..127),
                        n160-r17                INTEGER (0..159),
                        n256-r17                INTEGER (0..255),
                        n320-r17                INTEGER (0..319),
                        n640-r17                INTEGER (0..639),
                        n1280-r17               INTEGER (0..1279),
                        n2560-r17               INTEGER (0..2559),
                        n5120-r17               INTEGER (0..5119),
                        n10240-r17              INTEGER (0..10239),
                        n20480-r17              INTEGER (0..20479),
                        n40960-r17              INTEGER (0..40959),
                        ...
    },
    scs120-r17      CHOICE {
                        n32-r17                 INTEGER (0..31),
                        n40-r17                 INTEGER (0..39),
                        n64-r17                 INTEGER (0..63),
                        n80-r17                 INTEGER (0..79),
                        n128-r17                INTEGER (0..127),
                        n160-r17                INTEGER (0..159),
                        n256-r17                INTEGER (0..255),
                        n320-r17                INTEGER (0..319),
                        n512-r17                INTEGER (0..511),
                        n640-r17                INTEGER (0..639),
                        n1280-r17               INTEGER (0..1279),
                        n2560-r17               INTEGER (0..2559),
                        n5120-r17               INTEGER (0..5119),
                        n10240-r17              INTEGER (0..10239),
                        n20480-r17              INTEGER (0..20479),
                        n40960-r17              INTEGER (0..40959),
                        n81920-r17              INTEGER (0..81919),
                        ...
    },
    ...
}

NR-DL-PRS-Resource-r17 ::= SEQUENCE {
    nr-DL-PRS-ResourceID-r17            NR-DL-PRS-ResourceID-r17,
    dl-PRS-SequenceID-r17               INTEGER (0..4095),
    dl-PRS-CombSizeN-AndReOffset-r17    CHOICE {
            n2-r17                          INTEGER (0..1),
            n4-r17                          INTEGER (0..3),
            n6-r17                          INTEGER (0..5),
            n12-r17                         INTEGER (0..11),
            ...
    },
    dl-PRS-ResourceSlotOffset-r17       INTEGER (0..maxNrofPRS-ResourceOffsetValue-1-r17),
    dl-PRS-ResourceSymbolOffset-r17     INTEGER (0..12),
    dl-PRS-QCL-Info-r17                 DL-PRS-QCL-Info-r17                         OPTIONAL, -- Need N
    ...,
    [[
    dl-PRS-ResourceSymbolOffset-v1800   INTEGER (13)                                OPTIONAL  -- Need R
    ]]
}

DL-PRS-QCL-Info-r17 ::= CHOICE {
    ssb-r17                     SEQUENCE {
        ssb-Index-r17                   INTEGER (0..63),
        rs-Type-r17                     ENUMERATED {typeC, typeD, typeC-plus-typeD},
        ...
    },
    dl-PRS-r17                  SEQUENCE {
        qcl-DL-PRS-ResourceID-r17       NR-DL-PRS-ResourceID-r17,
        ...
    },
    ...
}

NR-DL-PRS-ResourceID-r17 ::= INTEGER (0..maxNrofPRS-ResourcesPerSet-1-r17)

RepFactorAndTimeGap-r17 ::=  SEQUENCE {
    repetitionFactor-r17         ENUMERATED {n2, n4, n6, n8, n16, n32, spare2, spare1},
    timeGap-r17                  ENUMERATED {s1, s2, s4, s8, s16, s32, spare2, spare1}
}

-- TAG-NR-DL-PRS-PDC-INFO-STOP
-- ASN1STOP







–	NR-NS-PmaxList
The IE NR-NS-PmaxList is used to configure a list of additionalPmax and additionalSpectrumEmission, as defined in TS 38.101-1 [15], table 6.2.3.1-1A, TS 38.101-2 [39], table 6.2.3.1-2, and TS 38.101-5 [75], table 6.2.3.1-1A for a given frequency band.
NR-NS-PmaxList information element
-- ASN1START
-- TAG-NR-NS-PMAXLIST-START

NR-NS-PmaxList ::=                      SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxNR-NS-Pmax)) OF NR-NS-PmaxValue

NR-NS-PmaxValue ::=                     SEQUENCE {
    additionalPmax                          P-Max                               OPTIONAL,   -- Need N
    additionalSpectrumEmission              AdditionalSpectrumEmission
}

NR-NS-PmaxList-v1760 ::=                SEQUENCE (SIZE (1.. maxNR-NS-Pmax)) OF NR-NS-PmaxValue-v1760

NR-NS-PmaxValue-v1760 ::=               SEQUENCE {
    additionalSpectrumEmission-v1760        AdditionalSpectrumEmission-v1760    OPTIONAL   -- Need N
}

NR-NS-PmaxListAerial-r18 ::=            SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxNR-NS-Pmax)) OF NR-NS-PmaxValueAerial-r18

NR-NS-PmaxValueAerial-r18 ::=           SEQUENCE {
    additionalPmax-r18                      P-Max                               OPTIONAL,   -- Need N
    additionalSpectrumEmission-r18          AdditionalSpectrumEmission-r18
}

-- TAG-NR-NS-PMAXLIST-STOP
-- ASN1STOP

–	NSAG-ID
The IE NSAG-ID is used to identify an NSAG (TS 23.501 [32]) for slice-based cell reselection or slice-based random access.
NSAG-ID information element
-- ASN1START
-- TAG-NSAG-ID-START

NSAG-ID-r17 ::=                      BIT STRING (SIZE (8))

-- TAG-NSAG-ID-STOP
-- ASN1STOP

–	NSAG-IdentityInfo
The IE NSAG-IdentityInfo is used to identify an NSAG (TS 23.501 [32]) for slice-based cell reselection.
NSAG-IdentityInfo information element
-- ASN1START
-- TAG-NSAG-IDENTITYINFO-START

NSAG-IdentityInfo-r17 ::=            SEQUENCE {
    nsag-ID-r17                          NSAG-ID-r17,
    trackingAreaCode-r17                 TrackingAreaCode               OPTIONAL      -- Need R
}

-- TAG-NSAG-IDENTITYINFO-STOP
-- ASN1STOP



–	NTN-Config
The IE NTN-Config provides parameters needed for the UE to access NR via NTN access.
NTN-Config information element
-- ASN1START
-- TAG-NTN-CONFIG-START

NTN-Config-r17 ::=             SEQUENCE {
    epochTime-r17                  EpochTime-r17                                                            OPTIONAL,  -- Need R
    ntn-UlSyncValidityDuration-r17 ENUMERATED{ s5, s10, s15, s20, s25, s30, s35,
                                              s40, s45, s50, s55, s60, s120, s180, s240, s900}              OPTIONAL,  -- Cond SIB19
    cellSpecificKoffset-r17        INTEGER(1..1023)                                                         OPTIONAL,  -- Need R
    kmac-r17                       INTEGER(1..512)                                                          OPTIONAL,  -- Need R
    ta-Info-r17                    TA-Info-r17                                                              OPTIONAL,  -- Need R
    ntn-PolarizationDL-r17         ENUMERATED {rhcp,lhcp,linear}                                            OPTIONAL,  -- Need R
    ntn-PolarizationUL-r17         ENUMERATED {rhcp,lhcp,linear}                                            OPTIONAL,  -- Need S
    ephemerisInfo-r17              EphemerisInfo-r17                                                        OPTIONAL,  -- Need R
    ta-Report-r17                  ENUMERATED {enabled}                                                     OPTIONAL,  -- Need R
    ...
}

TA-Info-r17 ::=                 SEQUENCE  {
    ta-Common-r17                  INTEGER(0..66485757),
    ta-CommonDrift-r17             INTEGER(-257303..257303)                                                 OPTIONAL,  -- Need R
    ta-CommonDriftVariant-r17      INTEGER(0..28949)                                                        OPTIONAL   -- Need R
}

-- TAG-NTN-CONFIG-STOP
-- ASN1STOP





–	NZP-CSI-RS-Resource
The IE NZP-CSI-RS-Resource is used to configure Non-Zero-Power (NZP) CSI-RS transmitted in the cell where the IE is included, which the UE may be configured to measure on (see TS 38.214 [19], clause 5.2.2.3.1). A change of configuration between periodic, semi-persistent or aperiodic for an NZP-CSI-RS-Resource is not supported without a release and add.
NZP-CSI-RS-Resource information element
-- ASN1START
-- TAG-NZP-CSI-RS-RESOURCE-START

NZP-CSI-RS-Resource ::=             SEQUENCE {
    nzp-CSI-RS-ResourceId               NZP-CSI-RS-ResourceId,
    resourceMapping                     CSI-RS-ResourceMapping,
    powerControlOffset                  INTEGER (-8..15),
    powerControlOffsetSS                ENUMERATED{db-3, db0, db3, db6}                 OPTIONAL,   -- Need R
    scramblingID                        ScramblingId,
    periodicityAndOffset                CSI-ResourcePeriodicityAndOffset                OPTIONAL,   -- Cond PeriodicOrSemiPersistent
    qcl-InfoPeriodicCSI-RS              TCI-StateId                                     OPTIONAL,   -- Cond Periodic
    ...,
    [[
    subcarrierSpacing-r18               SubcarrierSpacing                               OPTIONAL,   -- Cond LTM
    absoluteFrequencyPointA-r18         ARFCN-ValueNR                                   OPTIONAL,   -- Cond LTM
    cyclicPrefix-r18                    ENUMERATED {extended}                           OPTIONAL    -- Cond LTM
    ]]
}

-- TAG-NZP-CSI-RS-RESOURCE-STOP
-- ASN1STOP





–	NZP-CSI-RS-ResourceId
The IE NZP-CSI-RS-ResourceId is used to identify one NZP-CSI-RS-Resource.
NZP-CSI-RS-ResourceId information element
-- ASN1START
-- TAG-NZP-CSI-RS-RESOURCEID-START

NZP-CSI-RS-ResourceId ::=           INTEGER (0..maxNrofNZP-CSI-RS-Resources-1)

-- TAG-NZP-CSI-RS-RESOURCEID-STOP
-- ASN1STOP

–	NZP-CSI-RS-ResourceSet
The IE NZP-CSI-RS-ResourceSet is a set of Non-Zero-Power (NZP) CSI-RS resources (their IDs) and set-specific parameters.
NZP-CSI-RS-ResourceSet information element
-- ASN1START
-- TAG-NZP-CSI-RS-RESOURCESET-START

NZP-CSI-RS-ResourceSet ::=          SEQUENCE {
    nzp-CSI-ResourceSetId               NZP-CSI-RS-ResourceSetId,
    nzp-CSI-RS-Resources                SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxNrofNZP-CSI-RS-ResourcesPerSet)) OF NZP-CSI-RS-ResourceId,
    repetition                          ENUMERATED { on, off }                                                  OPTIONAL,   -- Need S
    aperiodicTriggeringOffset           INTEGER(0..6)                                                           OPTIONAL,   -- Need S
    trs-Info                            ENUMERATED {true}                                                       OPTIONAL,   -- Need R
    ...,
    [[
    aperiodicTriggeringOffset-r16       INTEGER(0..31)                                                          OPTIONAL   -- Need S
    ]],
    [[
    pdc-Info-r17                        ENUMERATED {true}                                                       OPTIONAL,  -- Need R
    cmrGroupingAndPairing-r17           CMRGroupingAndPairing-r17                                               OPTIONAL,  -- Need R
    aperiodicTriggeringOffset-r17       INTEGER (0..124)                                                        OPTIONAL,  -- Need S
    aperiodicTriggeringOffsetL2-r17     INTEGER(0..31)                                                          OPTIONAL   -- Need R
    ]],
    [[
    resourceType-r18                    ENUMERATED {periodic}                                                   OPTIONAL   -- Cond LTM
    ]]
}

CMRGroupingAndPairing-r17 ::=        SEQUENCE {
    nrofResourcesGroup1-r17              INTEGER (1..7),
    pair1OfNZP-CSI-RS-r17                NZP-CSI-RS-Pairing-r17                                                 OPTIONAL,  -- Need R
    pair2OfNZP-CSI-RS-r17                NZP-CSI-RS-Pairing-r17                                                 OPTIONAL   -- Need R
}

NZP-CSI-RS-Pairing-r17  ::=          SEQUENCE {
    nzp-CSI-RS-ResourceId1-r17           INTEGER (1..7),
    nzp-CSI-RS-ResourceId2-r17           INTEGER (1..7)
}

-- TAG-NZP-CSI-RS-RESOURCESET-STOP
-- ASN1STOP





–	NZP-CSI-RS-ResourceSetId
The IE NZP-CSI-RS-ResourceSetId is used to identify one NZP-CSI-RS-ResourceSet.
NZP-CSI-RS-ResourceSetId information element
-- ASN1START
-- TAG-NZP-CSI-RS-RESOURCESETID-START

NZP-CSI-RS-ResourceSetId ::=        INTEGER (0..maxNrofNZP-CSI-RS-ResourceSets-1)

-- TAG-NZP-CSI-RS-RESOURCESETID-STOP
-- ASN1STOP

–	P-Max
The IE P-Max is used to limit the UE's uplink transmission power on a carrier frequency, in TS 38.101-1 [15] and in TS 38.101-5 [75], and is used to calculate the parameter Pcompensation defined in TS 38.304 [20]. In ATG cell, actual value of P-Max = 9 + field value [dBm].
P-Max information element
-- ASN1START
-- TAG-P-MAX-START

P-Max ::=                           INTEGER (-30..33)

-- TAG-P-MAX-STOP
-- ASN1STOP

–	PathlossReferenceRS
The IE PathlossReferenceRS is used to configure a Reference Signal (e.g. a CSI-RS config or a SS block) to be used for path loss estimation for PUSCH, PUCCH and SRS for unified TCI state operation.
PathlossReferenceRS information element
-- ASN1START
-- TAG-PATHLOSSREFERENCERS-START

PathlossReferenceRS-r17 ::=   SEQUENCE {
    pathlossReferenceRS-Id-r17          PathlossReferenceRS-Id-r17,
    referenceSignal-r17                 CHOICE {
        ssb-Index                           SSB-Index,
        csi-RS-Index                        NZP-CSI-RS-ResourceId
    },
    additionalPCI-r17                   AdditionalPCIIndex-r17                                         OPTIONAL  -- Cond RS-SSB
}


-- TAG-PATHLOSSREFERENCERS-STOP
-- ASN1STOP





–	PathlossReferenceRS-Id
The IE PathlossReferenceRS-Id is an ID for a reference signal (RS) configured as PUSCH, PUCCH and SRS pathloss reference RS for unified TCI state operation.
PathlossReferenceRS-Id information element
-- ASN1START
-- TAG-PATHLOSSREFERENCERS-ID-START

PathlossReferenceRS-Id-r17 ::= INTEGER (0..maxNrofPathlossReferenceRSs-1-r17)

-- TAG-PATHLOSSREFERENCERS-ID-STOP
-- ASN1STOP

–	PCI-ARFCN-EUTRA
The IE PCI-ARFCN-EUTRA is used to encode EUTRA PCI and ARFCN.
PCI-ARFCN-EUTRA information element
-- ASN1START
-- TAG-PCIARFCNEUTRA-START

PCI-ARFCN-EUTRA-r16 ::=             SEQUENCE {
    physCellId-r16                      EUTRA-PhysCellId,
    carrierFreq-r16                     ARFCN-ValueEUTRA
}

-- TAG-PCIARFCNEUTRA-STOP
-- ASN1STOP

–	PCI-ARFCN-NR
The IE PCI-ARFCN-NR is used to encode NR PCI and ARFCN.
PCI-ARFCN-NR information element
-- ASN1START
-- TAG-PCIARFCNNR-START

PCI-ARFCN-NR-r16 ::=                SEQUENCE {
    physCellId-r16                      PhysCellId,
    carrierFreq-r16                     ARFCN-ValueNR
}

-- TAG-PCIARFCNNR-STOP
-- ASN1STOP

–	PCI-List
The IE PCI-List concerns a list of physical cell identities, which may be used for different purposes.
PCI-List information element
-- ASN1START
-- TAG-PCI-LIST-START

PCI-List ::=                        SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxNrofCellMeas)) OF PhysCellId

-- TAG-PCI-LIST-STOP
-- ASN1STOP

–	PCI-Range
The IE PCI-Range is used to encode either a single or a range of physical cell identities. The range is encoded by using a start value and by indicating the number of consecutive physical cell identities (including start) in the range. For fields comprising multiple occurrences of PCI-Range, the Network may configure overlapping ranges of physical cell identities.
PCI-Range information element
-- ASN1START
-- TAG-PCI-RANGE-START

PCI-Range ::=                       SEQUENCE {
    start                               PhysCellId,
    range                               ENUMERATED {n4, n8, n12, n16, n24, n32, n48, n64, n84,
                                                    n96, n128, n168, n252, n504, n1008,spare1}                  OPTIONAL    -- Need S
}

-- TAG-PCI-RANGE-STOP
-- ASN1STOP



–	PCI-RangeElement
The IE PCI-RangeElement is used to define a PCI-Range as part of a list (e.g. AddMod list).
PCI-RangeElement information element
-- ASN1START
-- TAG-PCI-RANGEELEMENT-START

PCI-RangeElement ::=                SEQUENCE {
    pci-RangeIndex                      PCI-RangeIndex,
    pci-Range                           PCI-Range
}

-- TAG-PCI-RANGEELEMENT-STOP
-- ASN1STOP



–	PCI-RangeIndex
The IE PCI-RangeIndex identifies a physical cell id range, which may be used for different purposes.
PCI-RangeIndex information element
-- ASN1START
-- TAG-PCI-RANGEINDEX-START

PCI-RangeIndex ::=                  INTEGER (1..maxNrofPCI-Ranges)

-- TAG-PCI-RANGEINDEX-STOP
-- ASN1STOP

–	PCI-RangeIndexList
The IE PCI-RangeIndexList concerns a list of indexes of physical cell id ranges, which may be used for different purposes.
PCI-RangeIndexList information element
-- ASN1START
-- TAG-PCI-RANGEINDEXLIST-START

PCI-RangeIndexList ::=              SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxNrofPCI-Ranges)) OF PCI-RangeIndex

-- TAG-PCI-RANGEINDEXLIST-STOP
-- ASN1STOP

–	PDCCH-Config
The IE PDCCH-Config is used to configure UE specific PDCCH parameters or MBS multicast PDCCH parameters such as control resource sets (CORESET), search spaces and additional parameters for acquiring the PDCCH. If this IE is used for the scheduled SCell in case of cross carrier scheduling, the fields other than searchSpacesToAddModList and searchSpacesToReleaseList are absent. If the IE is used for a dormant BWP, the fields other than controlResourceSetToAddModList and controlResourceSetToReleaseList are absent. If this IE is used for MBS CFR, the field downlinkPreemptiom,tpc-PUSCH, tpc-SRS, uplinkCancellation, monitoringCapabilityConfig, and searchSpaceSwitchConfig are absent.
PDCCH-Config information element
-- ASN1START
-- TAG-PDCCH-CONFIG-START

PDCCH-Config ::=                    SEQUENCE {
    controlResourceSetToAddModList      SEQUENCE(SIZE (1..3)) OF ControlResourceSet                      OPTIONAL,   -- Need N
    controlResourceSetToReleaseList     SEQUENCE(SIZE (1..3)) OF ControlResourceSetId                    OPTIONAL,   -- Need N
    searchSpacesToAddModList            SEQUENCE(SIZE (1..10)) OF SearchSpace                            OPTIONAL,   -- Need N
    searchSpacesToReleaseList           SEQUENCE(SIZE (1..10)) OF SearchSpaceId                          OPTIONAL,   -- Need N
    downlinkPreemption                  SetupRelease { DownlinkPreemption }                              OPTIONAL,   -- Need M
    tpc-PUSCH                           SetupRelease { PUSCH-TPC-CommandConfig }                         OPTIONAL,   -- Need M
    tpc-PUCCH                           SetupRelease { PUCCH-TPC-CommandConfig }                         OPTIONAL,   -- Need M
    tpc-SRS                             SetupRelease { SRS-TPC-CommandConfig}                            OPTIONAL,   -- Need M
    ...,
    [[
    controlResourceSetToAddModListSizeExt-v1610 SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..2)) OF ControlResourceSet             OPTIONAL,   -- Need N
    controlResourceSetToReleaseListSizeExt-r16 SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..5)) OF ControlResourceSetId-r16        OPTIONAL,   -- Need N
    searchSpacesToAddModListExt-r16     SEQUENCE(SIZE (1..10)) OF SearchSpaceExt-r16                     OPTIONAL,   -- Need N
    uplinkCancellation-r16              SetupRelease { UplinkCancellation-r16 }                          OPTIONAL,   -- Need M
    monitoringCapabilityConfig-r16      ENUMERATED { r15monitoringcapability,r16monitoringcapability }   OPTIONAL,   -- Need M
    searchSpaceSwitchConfig-r16         SearchSpaceSwitchConfig-r16                                      OPTIONAL    -- Need R
    ]],
    [[
    searchSpacesToAddModListExt-v1700   SEQUENCE(SIZE (1..10)) OF SearchSpaceExt-v1700                   OPTIONAL,   -- Need N
    monitoringCapabilityConfig-v1710    ENUMERATED { r17monitoringcapability }                           OPTIONAL,   -- Need M
    searchSpaceSwitchConfig-r17         SearchSpaceSwitchConfig-r17                                      OPTIONAL,   -- Need R
    pdcch-SkippingDurationList-r17      SEQUENCE(SIZE (1..3)) OF SCS-SpecificDuration-r17                OPTIONAL    -- Need R
    ]],
    [[
    pdcch-MonitoringResumptionAfterNack-r18 ENUMERATED {true}                                            OPTIONAL,   -- Need R
    searchSpacesToAddModListExt-v1800   SEQUENCE(SIZE (1..10)) OF SearchSpaceExt-v1800                   OPTIONAL    -- Need N
    ]]
}

SearchSpaceSwitchConfig-r16 ::=     SEQUENCE {
    cellGroupsForSwitchList-r16         SEQUENCE(SIZE (1..4)) OF CellGroupForSwitch-r16                  OPTIONAL,   -- Need R
    searchSpaceSwitchDelay-r16          INTEGER (10..52)                                                 OPTIONAL    -- Need R
}

SearchSpaceSwitchConfig-r17 ::=     SEQUENCE {
    searchSpaceSwitchTimer-r17          SCS-SpecificDuration-r17                                         OPTIONAL,   -- Need R
    searchSpaceSwitchDelay-r17          INTEGER (10..52)                                                 OPTIONAL    -- Need R
}

CellGroupForSwitch-r16 ::=          SEQUENCE(SIZE (1..16)) OF ServCellIndex

SCS-SpecificDuration-r17   ::=      INTEGER (1..166)

-- TAG-PDCCH-CONFIG-STOP
-- ASN1STOP





–	PDCCH-ConfigCommon
The IE PDCCH-ConfigCommon is used to configure cell specific PDCCH parameters provided in SIB as well as in dedicated signalling.
PDCCH-ConfigCommon information element
-- ASN1START
-- TAG-PDCCH-CONFIGCOMMON-START

PDCCH-ConfigCommon ::=              SEQUENCE {
    controlResourceSetZero              ControlResourceSetZero                                  OPTIONAL,   -- Cond InitialBWP-Only
    commonControlResourceSet            ControlResourceSet                                      OPTIONAL,   -- Need R
    searchSpaceZero                     SearchSpaceZero                                         OPTIONAL,   -- Cond InitialBWP-Only
    commonSearchSpaceList               SEQUENCE (SIZE(1..4)) OF SearchSpace                    OPTIONAL,   -- Need R
    searchSpaceSIB1                     SearchSpaceId                                           OPTIONAL,   -- Need S
    searchSpaceOtherSystemInformation   SearchSpaceId                                           OPTIONAL,   -- Need S
    pagingSearchSpace                   SearchSpaceId                                           OPTIONAL,   -- Need S
    ra-SearchSpace                      SearchSpaceId                                           OPTIONAL,   -- Need S
    ...,
    [[
    firstPDCCH-MonitoringOccasionOfPO   CHOICE {
        sCS15KHZoneT                                                             SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxPO-perPF)) OF INTEGER (0..139),
        sCS30KHZoneT-SCS15KHZhalfT                                               SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxPO-perPF)) OF INTEGER (0..279),
        sCS60KHZoneT-SCS30KHZhalfT-SCS15KHZquarterT                              SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxPO-perPF)) OF INTEGER (0..559),
        sCS120KHZoneT-SCS60KHZhalfT-SCS30KHZquarterT-SCS15KHZoneEighthT          SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxPO-perPF)) OF INTEGER (0..1119),
        sCS120KHZhalfT-SCS60KHZquarterT-SCS30KHZoneEighthT-SCS15KHZoneSixteenthT SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxPO-perPF)) OF INTEGER (0..2239),
        sCS120KHZquarterT-SCS60KHZoneEighthT-SCS30KHZoneSixteenthT               SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxPO-perPF)) OF INTEGER (0..4479),
        sCS120KHZoneEighthT-SCS60KHZoneSixteenthT                                SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxPO-perPF)) OF INTEGER (0..8959),
        sCS120KHZoneSixteenthT                                                   SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxPO-perPF)) OF INTEGER (0..17919)
    }                                                                                           OPTIONAL    -- Cond OtherBWP
    ]],
    [[
    commonSearchSpaceListExt-r16                                             SEQUENCE (SIZE(1..4)) OF SearchSpaceExt-r16     OPTIONAL  -- Need R
    ]],
    [[
    sdt-SearchSpace-r17                 CHOICE {
        newSearchSpace                      SearchSpace,
        existingSearchSpace                 SearchSpaceId
    }                                                                                           OPTIONAL,   -- Need R
    searchSpaceMCCH-r17                 SearchSpaceId                                           OPTIONAL,   -- Need R
    searchSpaceMTCH-r17                 SearchSpaceId                                           OPTIONAL,   -- Need S
    commonSearchSpaceListExt2-r17       SEQUENCE (SIZE(1..4)) OF SearchSpaceExt-v1700           OPTIONAL,   -- Need R
    firstPDCCH-MonitoringOccasionOfPO-v1710 CHOICE {
       sCS480KHZoneEighthT                      SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxPO-perPF)) OF INTEGER (0..35839),
       sCS480KHZoneSixteenthT                   SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxPO-perPF)) OF INTEGER (0..71679)
    }                                                                                           OPTIONAL,   -- Need R
    pei-ConfigBWP-r17      SEQUENCE {
        pei-SearchSpace-r17                 SearchSpaceId,
        firstPDCCH-MonitoringOccasionOfPEI-O-r17  CHOICE {
            sCS15KHZoneT                                                     SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxPEI-perPF-r17)) OF INTEGER (0..139),
            sCS30KHZoneT-SCS15KHZhalfT                                       SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxPEI-perPF-r17)) OF INTEGER (0..279),
            sCS60KHZoneT-SCS30KHZhalfT-SCS15KHZquarterT                      SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxPEI-perPF-r17)) OF INTEGER (0..559),
            sCS120KHZoneT-SCS60KHZhalfT-SCS30KHZquarterT-SCS15KHZoneEighthT  SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxPEI-perPF-r17)) OF INTEGER (0..1119),
            sCS120KHZhalfT-SCS60KHZquarterT-SCS30KHZoneEighthT-SCS15KHZoneSixteenthT SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxPEI-perPF-r17)) OF INTEGER (0..2239),
            sCS480KHZoneT-SCS120KHZquarterT-SCS60KHZoneEighthT-SCS30KHZoneSixteenthT SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxPEI-perPF-r17)) OF INTEGER (0..4479),
            sCS480KHZhalfT-SCS120KHZoneEighthT-SCS60KHZoneSixteenthT         SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxPEI-perPF-r17)) OF INTEGER (0..8959),
            sCS480KHZquarterT-SCS120KHZoneSixteenthT                         SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxPEI-perPF-r17)) OF INTEGER (0..17919),
            sCS480KHZoneEighthT                                           SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxPEI-perPF-r17)) OF INTEGER (0..35839),
            sCS480KHZoneSixteenthT                                        SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxPEI-perPF-r17)) OF INTEGER (0..71679)
        }
    }                                                                                           OPTIONAL     -- Cond InitialBWP-Paging
    ]],
    [[
    followUnifiedTCI-State-v1720           ENUMERATED {enabled}                                  OPTIONAL     -- Need R
    ]],
    [[
    applyIndicatedTCI-State-r18            ENUMERATED {first, second, both, none}                OPTIONAL,   -- Cond FollowUTCI
    commonSearchSpaceListExt-r18           SEQUENCE (SIZE(1..4)) OF SearchSpaceExt-v1800         OPTIONAL,   -- Need R
    searchSpaceMulticastMCCH-r18           SearchSpaceId                                         OPTIONAL,   -- Need R
    searchSpaceMulticastMTCH-r18           SearchSpaceId                                         OPTIONAL    -- Need S
    ]]
}

-- TAG-PDCCH-CONFIGCOMMON-STOP
-- ASN1STOP





–	PDCCH-ConfigSIB1
The IE PDCCH-ConfigSIB1 is used to configure CORESET#0 and search space#0.
PDCCH-ConfigSIB1 information element
-- ASN1START
-- TAG-PDCCH-CONFIGSIB1-START

PDCCH-ConfigSIB1 ::=                SEQUENCE {
    controlResourceSetZero              ControlResourceSetZero,
    searchSpaceZero                     SearchSpaceZero
}

-- TAG-PDCCH-CONFIGSIB1-STOP
-- ASN1STOP



–	PDCCH-ServingCellConfig
The IE PDCCH-ServingCellConfig is used to configure UE specific PDCCH parameters applicable across all bandwidth parts of a serving cell.
PDCCH-ServingCellConfig information element
-- ASN1START
-- TAG-PDCCH-SERVINGCELLCONFIG-START

PDCCH-ServingCellConfig ::=         SEQUENCE {
    slotFormatIndicator                 SetupRelease { SlotFormatIndicator }                                OPTIONAL,   -- Need M
    ...,
    [[
    availabilityIndicator-r16           SetupRelease {AvailabilityIndicator-r16}                            OPTIONAL,   -- Need M
    searchSpaceSwitchTimer-r16          INTEGER (1..80)                                                     OPTIONAL    -- Need R
    ]],
    [[
    searchSpaceSwitchTimer-v1710        INTEGER (81..1280)                                                  OPTIONAL    -- Need R
    ]]
}

-- TAG-PDCCH-SERVINGCELLCONFIG-STOP
-- ASN1STOP



–	PDCP-Config
The IE PDCP-Config is used to set the configurable PDCP parameters for signalling, MBS multicast and data radio bearers.
PDCP-Config information element
-- ASN1START
-- TAG-PDCP-CONFIG-START

PDCP-Config ::=         SEQUENCE {
    drb                     SEQUENCE {
        discardTimer            ENUMERATED {ms10, ms20, ms30, ms40, ms50, ms60, ms75, ms100, ms150, ms200,
                                            ms250, ms300, ms500, ms750, ms1500, infinity}       OPTIONAL, -- Cond Setup
        pdcp-SN-SizeUL          ENUMERATED {len12bits, len18bits}                               OPTIONAL, -- Cond Setup1
        pdcp-SN-SizeDL          ENUMERATED {len12bits, len18bits}                               OPTIONAL, -- Cond Setup2
        headerCompression       CHOICE {
            notUsed                 NULL,
            rohc                    SEQUENCE {
                maxCID                  INTEGER (1..16383)                                      DEFAULT 15,
                profiles                SEQUENCE {
                    profile0x0001           BOOLEAN,
                    profile0x0002           BOOLEAN,
                    profile0x0003           BOOLEAN,
                    profile0x0004           BOOLEAN,
                    profile0x0006           BOOLEAN,
                    profile0x0101           BOOLEAN,
                    profile0x0102           BOOLEAN,
                    profile0x0103           BOOLEAN,
                    profile0x0104           BOOLEAN
                },
                drb-ContinueROHC            ENUMERATED { true }                                 OPTIONAL    -- Need N
            },
            uplinkOnlyROHC          SEQUENCE {
                maxCID                  INTEGER (1..16383)                                      DEFAULT 15,
                profiles                SEQUENCE {
                    profile0x0006           BOOLEAN
                },
                drb-ContinueROHC            ENUMERATED { true }                                 OPTIONAL    -- Need N
            },
            ...
        },
        integrityProtection     ENUMERATED { enabled }                                          OPTIONAL,   -- Cond ConnectedTo5GC1
        statusReportRequired    ENUMERATED { true }                                             OPTIONAL,   -- Cond Rlc-AM-UM
        outOfOrderDelivery      ENUMERATED { true }                                             OPTIONAL    -- Need R
    }                                                                                           OPTIONAL,   -- Cond DRB
    moreThanOneRLC          SEQUENCE {
        primaryPath             SEQUENCE {
            cellGroup               CellGroupId                                                 OPTIONAL,   -- Need R
            logicalChannel          LogicalChannelIdentity                                      OPTIONAL    -- Need R
        },
        ul-DataSplitThreshold   UL-DataSplitThreshold                                           OPTIONAL,   -- Cond SplitBearer
        pdcp-Duplication            BOOLEAN                                                     OPTIONAL    -- Need R
    }                                                                                           OPTIONAL,   -- Cond MoreThanOneRLC

    t-Reordering                ENUMERATED {
                                    ms0, ms1, ms2, ms4, ms5, ms8, ms10, ms15, ms20, ms30, ms40,
                                    ms50, ms60, ms80, ms100, ms120, ms140, ms160, ms180, ms200, ms220,
                                    ms240, ms260, ms280, ms300, ms500, ms750, ms1000, ms1250,
                                    ms1500, ms1750, ms2000, ms2250, ms2500, ms2750,
                                    ms3000, spare28, spare27, spare26, spare25, spare24,
                                    spare23, spare22, spare21, spare20,
                                    spare19, spare18, spare17, spare16, spare15, spare14,
                                    spare13, spare12, spare11, spare10, spare09,
                                    spare08, spare07, spare06, spare05, spare04, spare03,
                                    spare02, spare01 }                                          OPTIONAL, -- Need S
    ...,
    [[
    cipheringDisabled       ENUMERATED {true}                                                   OPTIONAL    -- Cond ConnectedTo5GC
    ]],
    [[
    discardTimerExt-r16     SetupRelease { DiscardTimerExt-r16 }                                OPTIONAL,    -- Cond DRB2
    moreThanTwoRLC-DRB-r16  SEQUENCE {
        splitSecondaryPath-r16  LogicalChannelIdentity                                          OPTIONAL,   -- Cond SplitBearer2
        duplicationState-r16    SEQUENCE (SIZE (3)) OF BOOLEAN                                  OPTIONAL    -- Need S
    }                                                                                           OPTIONAL,   -- Cond MoreThanTwoRLC-DRB
    ethernetHeaderCompression-r16  SetupRelease { EthernetHeaderCompression-r16 }               OPTIONAL    -- Need M
    ]],
    [[
    survivalTimeStateSupport-r17   ENUMERATED {true}                                            OPTIONAL,   -- Cond Drb-Duplication
    uplinkDataCompression-r17      SetupRelease { UplinkDataCompression-r17 }                   OPTIONAL,   -- Cond Rlc-AM
    discardTimerExt2-r17           SetupRelease { DiscardTimerExt2-r17 }                        OPTIONAL,   -- Need M
    initialRX-DELIV-r17            BIT STRING (SIZE (32))                                       OPTIONAL    -- Cond MRB-Initialization
    ]],
    [[
    pdu-SetDiscard-r18             ENUMERATED {true}                                            OPTIONAL,   -- Need R
    discardTimerForLowImportance-r18   SetupRelease { DiscardTimerForLowImportance-r18 }        OPTIONAL,   -- Cond DRB2
    primaryPathOnIndirectPath-r18  ENUMERATED {true}                                            OPTIONAL,   -- Cond SplitBearerMP
    sn-GapReport-r18               ENUMERATED {true}                                            OPTIONAL    -- Need R
    ]]
}

EthernetHeaderCompression-r16 ::=  SEQUENCE {
    ehc-Common-r16                     SEQUENCE {
        ehc-CID-Length-r16                 ENUMERATED { bits7, bits15 },
         ...
    },
    ehc-Downlink-r16               SEQUENCE {
        drb-ContinueEHC-DL-r16         ENUMERATED { true }                                      OPTIONAL,   -- Need N
        ...
    }                                                                                           OPTIONAL,   -- Need M
    ehc-Uplink-r16                 SEQUENCE {
        maxCID-EHC-UL-r16              INTEGER (1..32767),
        drb-ContinueEHC-UL-r16         ENUMERATED { true }                                      OPTIONAL,   -- Need N
        ...
    }                                                                                           OPTIONAL    -- Need M
}

UL-DataSplitThreshold ::= ENUMERATED {
                                            b0, b100, b200, b400, b800, b1600, b3200, b6400, b12800, b25600, b51200, b102400, b204800,
                                            b409600, b819200, b1228800, b1638400, b2457600, b3276800, b4096000, b4915200, b5734400,
                                            b6553600, infinity, spare8, spare7, spare6, spare5, spare4, spare3, spare2, spare1}

DiscardTimerExt-r16 ::= ENUMERATED {ms0dot5, ms1, ms2, ms4, ms6, ms8, spare2, spare1}

DiscardTimerExt2-r17 ::= ENUMERATED {ms2000, spare3, spare2, spare1}

UplinkDataCompression-r17 ::= CHOICE {
    newSetup                      SEQUENCE {
        bufferSize-r17                ENUMERATED {kbyte2, kbyte4, kbyte8, spare1},
        dictionary-r17                ENUMERATED {sip-SDP, operator}                            OPTIONAL    -- Need N
    },
    drb-ContinueUDC           NULL
}

DiscardTimerForLowImportance-r18 ::= ENUMERATED {ms0, ms2, ms4, ms6, ms8, ms10, ms12, ms14, ms18, ms22, ms26, ms30, ms40, ms50, ms75, ms100}

-- TAG-PDCP-CONFIG-STOP
-- ASN1STOP









–	PDSCH-Config
The PDSCH-Config IE is used to configure the UE specific PDSCH parameters. If this IE is used for MBS CFR, the following fields shall be absent: tci-StatesToAddModList, tci-StatesToReleaseList, zp-CSI-RS-ResourceToAddModList, minimumSchedulingOffsetK0, antennaPortsFieldPresenceDCI-1-2, aperiodicZP-CSI-RS-ResourceSetsToAddModListDCI-1-2, aperiodicZP-CSI-RS-ResourceSetsToReleaseListDCI-1-2, dmrs-DownlinkForPDSCH-MappingTypeA-DCI-1-2, dmrs-DownlinkForPDSCH-MappingTypeB-DCI-1-2, dmrs-SequenceInitializationDCI-1-2, harq-ProcessNumberSizeDCI-1-2, mcs-TableDCI-1-2, numberOfBitsForRV-DCI-1-2, pdsch-AggregationFactor, pdsch-TimeDomainAllocationListDCI-1-2, prb-BundlingTypeDCI-1-2, priorityIndicatorDCI-1-2, rateMatchPatternGroup1DCI-1-2, rateMatchPatternGroup2DCI-1-2, resourceAllocationType1GranularityDCI-1-2, vrb-ToPRB-InterleaverDCI-1-2, referenceOfSLIVDCI-1-2, resourceAllocationDCI-1-2, dataScramblingIdentityPDSCH2-r16, repetitionSchemeConfig, pdsch-ConfigDCI-1-3.
PDSCH-Config information element
-- ASN1START
-- TAG-PDSCH-CONFIG-START

PDSCH-Config ::=                        SEQUENCE {
    dataScramblingIdentityPDSCH             INTEGER (0..1023)                                                   OPTIONAL,   -- Need S
    dmrs-DownlinkForPDSCH-MappingTypeA      SetupRelease { DMRS-DownlinkConfig }                                OPTIONAL,   -- Need M
    dmrs-DownlinkForPDSCH-MappingTypeB      SetupRelease { DMRS-DownlinkConfig }                                OPTIONAL,   -- Need M

    tci-StatesToAddModList                  SEQUENCE (SIZE(1..maxNrofTCI-States)) OF TCI-State                  OPTIONAL,   -- Need N
    tci-StatesToReleaseList                 SEQUENCE (SIZE(1..maxNrofTCI-States)) OF TCI-StateId                OPTIONAL,   -- Need N
    vrb-ToPRB-Interleaver                   ENUMERATED {n2, n4}                                                 OPTIONAL,   -- Need S
    resourceAllocation                      ENUMERATED { resourceAllocationType0, resourceAllocationType1, dynamicSwitch},
    pdsch-TimeDomainAllocationList          SetupRelease { PDSCH-TimeDomainResourceAllocationList }             OPTIONAL,   -- Need M
    pdsch-AggregationFactor                 ENUMERATED { n2, n4, n8 }                                           OPTIONAL,   -- Need S
    rateMatchPatternToAddModList            SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxNrofRateMatchPatterns)) OF RateMatchPattern   OPTIONAL,   -- Need N
    rateMatchPatternToReleaseList           SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxNrofRateMatchPatterns)) OF RateMatchPatternId OPTIONAL,   -- Need N
    rateMatchPatternGroup1                  RateMatchPatternGroup                                               OPTIONAL,   -- Need R
    rateMatchPatternGroup2                  RateMatchPatternGroup                                               OPTIONAL,   -- Need R

    rbg-Size                                ENUMERATED {config1, config2},
    mcs-Table                               ENUMERATED {qam256, qam64LowSE}                                     OPTIONAL,   -- Need S
    maxNrofCodeWordsScheduledByDCI          ENUMERATED {n1, n2}                                                 OPTIONAL,   -- Need R

    prb-BundlingType                        CHOICE {
        staticBundling                          SEQUENCE {
            bundleSize                              ENUMERATED { n4, wideband }                                 OPTIONAL    -- Need S
        },
        dynamicBundling                     SEQUENCE {
            bundleSizeSet1                      ENUMERATED { n4, wideband, n2-wideband, n4-wideband }           OPTIONAL,   -- Need S
            bundleSizeSet2                      ENUMERATED { n4, wideband }                                     OPTIONAL    -- Need S
        }
    },
    zp-CSI-RS-ResourceToAddModList                  SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxNrofZP-CSI-RS-Resources)) OF ZP-CSI-RS-Resource
                                                                                                                OPTIONAL,   -- Need N
    zp-CSI-RS-ResourceToReleaseList                 SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxNrofZP-CSI-RS-Resources)) OF ZP-CSI-RS-ResourceId
                                                                                                                OPTIONAL,   -- Need N
    aperiodic-ZP-CSI-RS-ResourceSetsToAddModList    SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxNrofZP-CSI-RS-ResourceSets)) OF ZP-CSI-RS-ResourceSet
                                                                                                                OPTIONAL,   -- Need N
    aperiodic-ZP-CSI-RS-ResourceSetsToReleaseList SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxNrofZP-CSI-RS-ResourceSets)) OF ZP-CSI-RS-ResourceSetId
                                                                                                                OPTIONAL,   -- Need N
    sp-ZP-CSI-RS-ResourceSetsToAddModList   SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxNrofZP-CSI-RS-ResourceSets)) OF ZP-CSI-RS-ResourceSet
                                                                                                                OPTIONAL,   -- Need N
    sp-ZP-CSI-RS-ResourceSetsToReleaseList  SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxNrofZP-CSI-RS-ResourceSets)) OF ZP-CSI-RS-ResourceSetId
                                                                                                                OPTIONAL,   -- Need N
    p-ZP-CSI-RS-ResourceSet                 SetupRelease { ZP-CSI-RS-ResourceSet }
                                                                                                                OPTIONAL,   -- Need M
    ...,
    [[
    maxMIMO-Layers-r16                      SetupRelease { MaxMIMO-LayersDL-r16 }                               OPTIONAL,   -- Need M
    minimumSchedulingOffsetK0-r16           SetupRelease { MinSchedulingOffsetK0-Values-r16 }                   OPTIONAL,   -- Need M

    -- Start of the parameters for DCI format 1_2 introduced in V16.1.0
    antennaPortsFieldPresenceDCI-1-2-r16            ENUMERATED {enabled}                                        OPTIONAL,   -- Need S
    aperiodicZP-CSI-RS-ResourceSetsToAddModListDCI-1-2-r16  SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxNrofZP-CSI-RS-ResourceSets)) OF ZP-CSI-RS-ResourceSet
                                                                                                                OPTIONAL,   -- Need N
    aperiodicZP-CSI-RS-ResourceSetsToReleaseListDCI-1-2-r16 SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxNrofZP-CSI-RS-ResourceSets)) OF ZP-CSI-RS-ResourceSetId
                                                                                                                OPTIONAL,   -- Need N
    dmrs-DownlinkForPDSCH-MappingTypeA-DCI-1-2-r16  SetupRelease { DMRS-DownlinkConfig }                        OPTIONAL,   -- Need M
    dmrs-DownlinkForPDSCH-MappingTypeB-DCI-1-2-r16  SetupRelease { DMRS-DownlinkConfig }                        OPTIONAL,   -- Need M
    dmrs-SequenceInitializationDCI-1-2-r16          ENUMERATED {enabled}                                        OPTIONAL,   -- Need S
    harq-ProcessNumberSizeDCI-1-2-r16               INTEGER (0..4)                                              OPTIONAL,   -- Need R
    mcs-TableDCI-1-2-r16                            ENUMERATED {qam256, qam64LowSE}                             OPTIONAL,   -- Need S
    numberOfBitsForRV-DCI-1-2-r16                   INTEGER (0..2)                                              OPTIONAL,   -- Need R
    pdsch-TimeDomainAllocationListDCI-1-2-r16       SetupRelease { PDSCH-TimeDomainResourceAllocationList-r16 }
                                                                                                                OPTIONAL,   -- Need M
    prb-BundlingTypeDCI-1-2-r16             CHOICE {
        staticBundling-r16                      SEQUENCE {
            bundleSize-r16                          ENUMERATED { n4, wideband }                                 OPTIONAL    -- Need S
        },
        dynamicBundling-r16                     SEQUENCE {
            bundleSizeSet1-r16                      ENUMERATED { n4, wideband, n2-wideband, n4-wideband }       OPTIONAL,   -- Need S
            bundleSizeSet2-r16                      ENUMERATED { n4, wideband }                                 OPTIONAL    -- Need S
        }
    }                                                                                                           OPTIONAL,   -- Need R
    priorityIndicatorDCI-1-2-r16                ENUMERATED {enabled}                                            OPTIONAL,   -- Need S
    rateMatchPatternGroup1DCI-1-2-r16           RateMatchPatternGroup                                           OPTIONAL,   -- Need R
    rateMatchPatternGroup2DCI-1-2-r16           RateMatchPatternGroup                                           OPTIONAL,   -- Need R
    resourceAllocationType1GranularityDCI-1-2-r16  ENUMERATED {n2,n4,n8,n16}                                    OPTIONAL,   -- Need S
    vrb-ToPRB-InterleaverDCI-1-2-r16            ENUMERATED {n2, n4}                                             OPTIONAL,   -- Need S
    referenceOfSLIVDCI-1-2-r16                  ENUMERATED {enabled}                                            OPTIONAL,   -- Need S
    resourceAllocationDCI-1-2-r16               ENUMERATED { resourceAllocationType0, resourceAllocationType1, dynamicSwitch}
                                                                                                                OPTIONAL,   -- Need M
    -- End of the parameters for DCI format 1_2 introduced in V16.1.0

    priorityIndicatorDCI-1-1-r16             ENUMERATED {enabled}                                               OPTIONAL,   -- Need S
    dataScramblingIdentityPDSCH2-r16         INTEGER (0..1023)                                                  OPTIONAL,   -- Need R
    pdsch-TimeDomainAllocationList-r16       SetupRelease { PDSCH-TimeDomainResourceAllocationList-r16 }        OPTIONAL,   -- Need M
    repetitionSchemeConfig-r16               SetupRelease { RepetitionSchemeConfig-r16}                         OPTIONAL    -- Need M
    ]],
    [[
    repetitionSchemeConfig-v1630             SetupRelease { RepetitionSchemeConfig-v1630}                       OPTIONAL    -- Need M
    ]],
    [[
    pdsch-HARQ-ACK-OneShotFeedbackDCI-1-2-r17    ENUMERATED {enabled}                                           OPTIONAL,   -- Need R
    pdsch-HARQ-ACK-EnhType3DCI-1-2-r17           ENUMERATED {enabled}                                           OPTIONAL,   -- Need R
    pdsch-HARQ-ACK-EnhType3DCI-Field-1-2-r17     ENUMERATED {enabled}                                           OPTIONAL,   -- Need R
    pdsch-HARQ-ACK-RetxDCI-1-2-r17               ENUMERATED {enabled}                                           OPTIONAL,   -- Need R
    pucch-sSCellDynDCI-1-2-r17                   ENUMERATED {enabled}                                           OPTIONAL,   -- Need R
    dl-OrJointTCI-StateList-r17                  CHOICE {
        explicitlist                                 SEQUENCE {
            dl-OrJointTCI-StateToAddModList-r17        SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxNrofTCI-States)) OF TCI-State
                                                                                                                OPTIONAL,   -- Need N
            dl-OrJointTCI-StateToReleaseList-r17       SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxNrofTCI-States)) OF TCI-StateId
                                                                                                                OPTIONAL    -- Need N
        },
        unifiedTCI-StateRef-r17                  ServingCellAndBWP-Id-r17
    }                                                                                                           OPTIONAL,   -- Need R
    beamAppTime-r17                              ENUMERATED {n1, n2, n4, n7, n14, n28, n42, n56, n70, n84, n98, n112, n224, n336, spare2,
                                                            spare1}                                             OPTIONAL,   -- Need R
    dummy                                        SetupRelease { Dummy-TDRA-List }                                    OPTIONAL,   -- Need M
    dmrs-FD-OCC-DisabledForRank1-PDSCH-r17          ENUMERATED {true}                                           OPTIONAL,   -- Need R
    minimumSchedulingOffsetK0-r17                   SetupRelease { MinSchedulingOffsetK0-Values-r17 }           OPTIONAL,   -- Need M
    harq-ProcessNumberSizeDCI-1-2-v1700          INTEGER (0..5)                                                 OPTIONAL,   -- Need R
    harq-ProcessNumberSizeDCI-1-1-r17            INTEGER (5)                                                    OPTIONAL,   -- Need R
    mcs-Table-r17                                ENUMERATED {qam1024}                                           OPTIONAL,   -- Need R
    mcs-TableDCI-1-2-r17                         ENUMERATED {qam1024}                                           OPTIONAL,   -- Need R
    xOverheadMulticast-r17                       ENUMERATED {xOh6, xOh12, xOh18}                                OPTIONAL,   -- Need S
    priorityIndicatorDCI-4-2-r17                 ENUMERATED {enabled}                                           OPTIONAL,   -- Need S
    sizeDCI-4-2-r17                              INTEGER (20..maxDCI-4-2-Size-r17)                              OPTIONAL    -- Need R
    ]],
    [[
    pdsch-TimeDomainAllocationListForMultiPDSCH-r17 SetupRelease { MultiPDSCH-TDRA-List-r17 }                   OPTIONAL    -- Need M
    ]],
    [[
    advancedReceiver-MU-MIMO-r18                 SetupRelease { AdvancedReceiver-MU-MIMO-r18 }                  OPTIONAL,   -- Need M
    pdsch-ConfigDCI-1-3-r18                      SetupRelease { PDSCH-ConfigDCI-1-3-r18 }                       OPTIONAL    -- Need M
    ]],
    [[
    pdsch-ConfigDCI-1-3-v1860                    SetupRelease { PDSCH-ConfigDCI-1-3-v1860 }                     OPTIONAL    -- Need M
    ]]
}

RateMatchPatternGroup ::=               SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxNrofRateMatchPatternsPerGroup)) OF CHOICE {
    cellLevel                               RateMatchPatternId,
    bwpLevel                                RateMatchPatternId
}

MinSchedulingOffsetK0-Values-r16 ::=    SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxNrOfMinSchedulingOffsetValues-r16)) OF INTEGER (0..maxK0-SchedulingOffset-r16)

MinSchedulingOffsetK0-Values-r17 ::=    SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxNrOfMinSchedulingOffsetValues-r16)) OF INTEGER (0..maxK0-SchedulingOffset-r17)

MaxMIMO-LayersDL-r16 ::=                INTEGER (1..8)

PDSCH-ConfigDCI-1-3-r18 ::=                    SEQUENCE {
    resourceAllocationDCI-1-3-r18                  ENUMERATED {resourceAllocationType0, resourceAllocationType1, dynamicSwitch}
                                                                                                                OPTIONAL,   -- Need M
    rbg-SizeDCI-1-3-r18                            ENUMERATED {config1, config2, config3, spare1}               OPTIONAL, -- Cond DCI-1-3
    resourceAllocationType1GranularityDCI-1-3-r18  ENUMERATED {n2,n4,n8,n16}                                    OPTIONAL,   -- Need S
    numberOfBitsForRV-DCI-1-3-r18                  INTEGER (0..2)                                               OPTIONAL,   -- Need R
    harq-ProcessNumberSizeDCI-1-3-r18              INTEGER (0..5)                                               OPTIONAL    -- Need R
}

PDSCH-ConfigDCI-1-3-v1860 ::=                  SEQUENCE {
    enabledDefaultBeamForMultiCellScheduling-r18   ENUMERATED {enabled}
}

-- TAG-PDSCH-CONFIG-STOP
-- ASN1STOP







–	PDSCH-ConfigCommon
The IE PDSCH-ConfigCommon is used to configure cell specific PDSCH parameters.
PDSCH-ConfigCommon information element
-- ASN1START
-- TAG-PDSCH-CONFIGCOMMON-START

PDSCH-ConfigCommon ::=                  SEQUENCE {
    pdsch-TimeDomainAllocationList                  PDSCH-TimeDomainResourceAllocationList          OPTIONAL,   -- Need R
    ...
}

-- TAG-PDSCH-CONFIGCOMMON-STOP
-- ASN1STOP



–	PDSCH-ServingCellConfig
The IE PDSCH-ServingCellConfig is used to configure UE specific PDSCH parameters that are common across the UE's BWPs of one serving cell.
PDSCH-ServingCellConfig information element
-- ASN1START
-- TAG-PDSCH-SERVINGCELLCONFIG-START

PDSCH-ServingCellConfig ::=             SEQUENCE {
    codeBlockGroupTransmission              SetupRelease { PDSCH-CodeBlockGroupTransmission }              OPTIONAL,   -- Need M
    xOverhead                               ENUMERATED { xOh6, xOh12, xOh18 }                              OPTIONAL,   -- Need S
    nrofHARQ-ProcessesForPDSCH              ENUMERATED {n2, n4, n6, n10, n12, n16}                         OPTIONAL,   -- Need S
    pucch-Cell                              ServCellIndex                                                  OPTIONAL,   -- Cond SCellAddOnly
    ...,
    [[
    maxMIMO-Layers                          INTEGER (1..8)                                                 OPTIONAL,   -- Need M
    processingType2Enabled                  BOOLEAN                                                        OPTIONAL    -- Need M
    ]],
    [[
    pdsch-CodeBlockGroupTransmissionList-r16 SetupRelease { PDSCH-CodeBlockGroupTransmissionList-r16 }     OPTIONAL    -- Need M
    ]],
    [[
    downlinkHARQ-FeedbackDisabled-r17       SetupRelease { DownlinkHARQ-FeedbackDisabled-r17 }              OPTIONAL,   -- Need M
    nrofHARQ-ProcessesForPDSCH-v1700        ENUMERATED {n32}                                               OPTIONAL    -- Need R
    ]]
}

PDSCH-CodeBlockGroupTransmission ::=    SEQUENCE {
    maxCodeBlockGroupsPerTransportBlock     ENUMERATED {n2, n4, n6, n8},
    codeBlockGroupFlushIndicator            BOOLEAN,
    ...
}

PDSCH-CodeBlockGroupTransmissionList-r16 ::=    SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..2)) OF PDSCH-CodeBlockGroupTransmission

DownlinkHARQ-FeedbackDisabled-r17 ::= BIT STRING (SIZE (32))

-- TAG-PDSCH-SERVINGCELLCONFIG-STOP
-- ASN1STOP







–	PDSCH-TimeDomainResourceAllocationList
The IE PDSCH-TimeDomainResourceAllocation is used to configure a time domain relation between PDCCH and PDSCH. The PDSCH-TimeDomainResourceAllocationList contains one or more of such PDSCH-TimeDomainResourceAllocations. The network indicates in the DL assignment which of the configured time domain allocations the UE shall apply for that DL assignment. The UE determines the bit width of the DCI field based on the number of entries in the PDSCH-TimeDomainResourceAllocationList. Value 0 in the DCI field refers to the first element in this list, value 1 in the DCI field refers to the second element in this list, and so on.
PDSCH-TimeDomainResourceAllocationList information element
-- ASN1START
-- TAG-PDSCH-TIMEDOMAINRESOURCEALLOCATIONLIST-START


PDSCH-TimeDomainResourceAllocationList ::=  SEQUENCE (SIZE(1..maxNrofDL-Allocations)) OF PDSCH-TimeDomainResourceAllocation

PDSCH-TimeDomainResourceAllocation ::=   SEQUENCE {
    k0                                      INTEGER(0..32)                                                  OPTIONAL,   -- Need S
    mappingType                             ENUMERATED {typeA, typeB},
    startSymbolAndLength                    INTEGER (0..127)
}

PDSCH-TimeDomainResourceAllocationList-r16 ::=  SEQUENCE (SIZE(1..maxNrofDL-Allocations)) OF PDSCH-TimeDomainResourceAllocation-r16

PDSCH-TimeDomainResourceAllocation-r16 ::=  SEQUENCE {
    k0-r16                                     INTEGER(0..32)                                              OPTIONAL,   -- Need S
    mappingType-r16                            ENUMERATED {typeA, typeB},
    startSymbolAndLength-r16                   INTEGER (0..127),
    repetitionNumber-r16                       ENUMERATED {n2, n3, n4, n5, n6, n7, n8, n16} OPTIONAL, -- Cond Formats1-0_1-1_4-0_4-1_4-2
    ...,
    [[
    k0-v1710                                INTEGER(33..128)                                               OPTIONAL    -- Need S
    ]],
    [[
    repetitionNumber-v1730                  ENUMERATED {n2, n3, n4, n5, n6, n7, n8, n16}                   OPTIONAL   -- Cond Format1-2
    ]]
}

Dummy-TDRA-List ::= SEQUENCE (SIZE(1.. maxNrofDL-Allocations)) OF MultiPDSCH-TDRA-r17

MultiPDSCH-TDRA-List-r17 ::= SEQUENCE (SIZE(1.. maxNrofDL-AllocationsExt-r17)) OF MultiPDSCH-TDRA-r17

MultiPDSCH-TDRA-r17 ::= SEQUENCE {
    pdsch-TDRA-List-r17                 SEQUENCE (SIZE(1..maxNrofMultiplePDSCHs-r17)) OF PDSCH-TimeDomainResourceAllocation-r16,
    ...
}

-- TAG-PDSCH-TIMEDOMAINRESOURCEALLOCATIONLIST-STOP
-- ASN1STOP







–	PDU-SessionID
The IE PDU-SessionID identifies the PDU Session.
PDU-SessionID information element
-- ASN1START
-- TAG-PDU-SESSIONID-START

PDU-SessionID ::=   INTEGER (0..255)

-- TAG-PDU-SESSIONID-STOP
-- ASN1STOP

–	PHR-Config
The IE PHR-Config is used to configure parameters for power headroom reporting.
PHR-Config information element
-- ASN1START
-- TAG-PHR-CONFIG-START

PHR-Config ::=                      SEQUENCE {
    phr-PeriodicTimer                   ENUMERATED {sf10, sf20, sf50, sf100, sf200,sf500, sf1000, infinity},
    phr-ProhibitTimer                   ENUMERATED {sf0, sf10, sf20, sf50, sf100,sf200, sf500, sf1000},
    phr-Tx-PowerFactorChange            ENUMERATED {dB1, dB3, dB6, infinity},
    multiplePHR                         BOOLEAN,
    dummy                               BOOLEAN,
    phr-Type2OtherCell                  BOOLEAN,
    phr-ModeOtherCG                     ENUMERATED {real, virtual},
    ...,
    [[
    mpe-Reporting-FR2-r16               SetupRelease { MPE-Config-FR2-r16 }                     OPTIONAL     -- Need M
    ]],
    [[
    mpe-Reporting-FR2-r17               SetupRelease { MPE-Config-FR2-r17 }                     OPTIONAL,    -- Need M
    twoPHRMode-r17                      ENUMERATED {enabled}                                    OPTIONAL     -- Need R
    ]],
    [[
    phr-AssumedPUSCH-Reporting-r18      ENUMERATED {enabled}                                    OPTIONAL,    -- Need R
    dpc-Reporting-FR1-r18               ENUMERATED {enabled}                                    OPTIONAL     -- Need R
    ]]
}

MPE-Config-FR2-r16 ::=              SEQUENCE {
    mpe-ProhibitTimer-r16               ENUMERATED {sf0, sf10, sf20, sf50, sf100, sf200, sf500, sf1000},
    mpe-Threshold-r16                   ENUMERATED {dB3, dB6, dB9, dB12}
}

MPE-Config-FR2-r17 ::=              SEQUENCE {
    mpe-ProhibitTimer-r17               ENUMERATED {sf0, sf10, sf20, sf50, sf100, sf200, sf500, sf1000},
    mpe-Threshold-r17                   ENUMERATED {dB3, dB6, dB9, dB12},
    numberOfN-r17                       INTEGER(1..4),
    ...
}

-- TAG-PHR-CONFIG-STOP
-- ASN1STOP



–	PhysCellId
The PhysCellId identifies the physical cell identity (PCI).
PhysCellId information element
-- ASN1START
-- TAG-PHYSCELLID-START

PhysCellId ::=                      INTEGER (0..1007)

-- TAG-PHYSCELLID-STOP
-- ASN1STOP

–	PhysicalCellGroupConfig
The IE PhysicalCellGroupConfig is used to configure cell-group specific L1 parameters.
PhysicalCellGroupConfig information element
-- ASN1START
-- TAG-PHYSICALCELLGROUPCONFIG-START

PhysicalCellGroupConfig ::=         SEQUENCE {
    harq-ACK-SpatialBundlingPUCCH       ENUMERATED {true}                                               OPTIONAL,   -- Need S
    harq-ACK-SpatialBundlingPUSCH       ENUMERATED {true}                                               OPTIONAL,   -- Need S
    p-NR-FR1                            P-Max                                                           OPTIONAL,   -- Need R
    pdsch-HARQ-ACK-Codebook             ENUMERATED {semiStatic, dynamic},
    tpc-SRS-RNTI                        RNTI-Value                                                      OPTIONAL,   -- Need R
    tpc-PUCCH-RNTI                      RNTI-Value                                                      OPTIONAL,   -- Need R
    tpc-PUSCH-RNTI                      RNTI-Value                                                      OPTIONAL,   -- Need R
    sp-CSI-RNTI                         RNTI-Value                                                      OPTIONAL,   -- Need R
    cs-RNTI                             SetupRelease { RNTI-Value }                                     OPTIONAL,   -- Need M
    ...,
    [[
    mcs-C-RNTI                          RNTI-Value                                                      OPTIONAL,   -- Need R
    p-UE-FR1                            P-Max                                                           OPTIONAL    -- Cond MCG-Only
    ]],
    [[
    xScale                              ENUMERATED {dB0, dB6, spare2, spare1}                           OPTIONAL    -- Cond SCG-Only
    ]],
    [[
    pdcch-BlindDetection                SetupRelease { PDCCH-BlindDetection }                           OPTIONAL    -- Need M
    ]],
    [[
    dcp-Config-r16                      SetupRelease { DCP-Config-r16 }                                 OPTIONAL,   -- Need M
    harq-ACK-SpatialBundlingPUCCH-secondaryPUCCHgroup-r16    ENUMERATED {enabled, disabled}             OPTIONAL,   -- Cond twoPUCCHgroup
    harq-ACK-SpatialBundlingPUSCH-secondaryPUCCHgroup-r16    ENUMERATED {enabled, disabled}             OPTIONAL,   -- Cond twoPUCCHgroup
    pdsch-HARQ-ACK-Codebook-secondaryPUCCHgroup-r16          ENUMERATED {semiStatic, dynamic}           OPTIONAL,   -- Cond twoPUCCHgroup
    p-NR-FR2-r16                                              P-Max                                     OPTIONAL,   -- Need R
    p-UE-FR2-r16                                              P-Max                                     OPTIONAL,   -- Cond MCG-Only
    nrdc-PCmode-FR1-r16                ENUMERATED {semi-static-mode1, semi-static-mode2, dynamic}       OPTIONAL,   -- Cond MCG-Only
    nrdc-PCmode-FR2-r16                ENUMERATED {semi-static-mode1, semi-static-mode2, dynamic}       OPTIONAL,   -- Cond MCG-Only
    pdsch-HARQ-ACK-Codebook-r16            ENUMERATED {enhancedDynamic}                                 OPTIONAL,   -- Need R
    nfi-TotalDAI-Included-r16              ENUMERATED {true}                                            OPTIONAL,   -- Need R
    ul-TotalDAI-Included-r16               ENUMERATED {true}                                            OPTIONAL,   -- Need R
    pdsch-HARQ-ACK-OneShotFeedback-r16     ENUMERATED {true}                                            OPTIONAL,   -- Need R
    pdsch-HARQ-ACK-OneShotFeedbackNDI-r16  ENUMERATED {true}                                            OPTIONAL,   -- Need R
    pdsch-HARQ-ACK-OneShotFeedbackCBG-r16  ENUMERATED {true}                                            OPTIONAL,   -- Need R
    downlinkAssignmentIndexDCI-0-2-r16     ENUMERATED { enabled }                                       OPTIONAL,   -- Need S
    downlinkAssignmentIndexDCI-1-2-r16     ENUMERATED {n1, n2, n4}                                      OPTIONAL,   -- Need S
    pdsch-HARQ-ACK-CodebookList-r16        SetupRelease {PDSCH-HARQ-ACK-CodebookList-r16}               OPTIONAL,   -- Need M
    ackNackFeedbackMode-r16                ENUMERATED {joint, separate}                                 OPTIONAL,   -- Need R
    pdcch-BlindDetectionCA-CombIndicator-r16 SetupRelease { PDCCH-BlindDetectionCA-CombIndicator-r16 }  OPTIONAL,   -- Need M
    pdcch-BlindDetection2-r16                SetupRelease { PDCCH-BlindDetection2-r16 }                 OPTIONAL,   -- Need M
    pdcch-BlindDetection3-r16                SetupRelease { PDCCH-BlindDetection3-r16 }                 OPTIONAL,   -- Need M
    bdFactorR-r16                          ENUMERATED {n1}                                              OPTIONAL    -- Need R
    ]],
    [[
    -- start of enhanced Type3 feedback
    pdsch-HARQ-ACK-EnhType3ToAddModList-r17   SEQUENCE (SIZE(1..maxNrofEnhType3HARQ-ACK-r17)) OF PDSCH-HARQ-ACK-EnhType3-r17
                                                                                                        OPTIONAL,   -- Need N
    pdsch-HARQ-ACK-EnhType3ToReleaseList-r17  SEQUENCE (SIZE(1..maxNrofEnhType3HARQ-ACK-r17)) OF PDSCH-HARQ-ACK-EnhType3Index-r17
                                                                                                        OPTIONAL,    -- Need N
    pdsch-HARQ-ACK-EnhType3SecondaryToAddModList-r17   SEQUENCE (SIZE(1..maxNrofEnhType3HARQ-ACK-r17)) OF PDSCH-HARQ-ACK-EnhType3-r17
                                                                                                        OPTIONAL,    -- Need N
    pdsch-HARQ-ACK-EnhType3SecondaryToReleaseList-r17  SEQUENCE (SIZE(1..maxNrofEnhType3HARQ-ACK-r17)) OF PDSCH-HARQ-ACK-EnhType3Index-r17
                                                                                                        OPTIONAL,    -- Need N
    pdsch-HARQ-ACK-EnhType3DCI-FieldSecondaryPUCCHgroup-r17 ENUMERATED {enabled}                        OPTIONAL,   -- Cond twoPUCCHgroup
    pdsch-HARQ-ACK-EnhType3DCI-Field-r17                ENUMERATED {enabled}                            OPTIONAL,   -- Need R
    -- end of enhanced Type3 feedback

    -- start of triggering of HARQ-ACK re-transmission on a PUCCH resource
    pdsch-HARQ-ACK-Retx-r17                   ENUMERATED {enabled}                                      OPTIONAL,   -- Need R
    pdsch-HARQ-ACK-RetxSecondaryPUCCHgroup-r17  ENUMERATED {enabled}                                    OPTIONAL,   -- Cond twoPUCCHgroup
    -- end of triggering of HARQ-ACK re-transmission on a PUCCH resource

    -- start of PUCCH Cell switching
    pucch-sSCell-r17                         SCellIndex                                                    OPTIONAL,   -- Need R
    pucch-sSCellSecondaryPUCCHgroup-r17      SCellIndex                                                    OPTIONAL,   -- Cond twoPUCCHgroup
    pucch-sSCellDyn-r17                      ENUMERATED {enabled}                                       OPTIONAL,   -- Need R
    pucch-sSCellDynSecondaryPUCCHgroup-r17   ENUMERATED {enabled}                                       OPTIONAL,   -- Cond twoPUCCHgroup
    pucch-sSCellPattern-r17                      SEQUENCE (SIZE(1..maxNrofSlots)) OF INTEGER (0..1)        OPTIONAL,   -- Need R
    pucch-sSCellPatternSecondaryPUCCHgroup-r17   SEQUENCE (SIZE(1..maxNrofSlots)) OF INTEGER (0..1)        OPTIONAL,   -- Cond twoPUCCHgroup
    -- end of PUCCH Cell switching

    uci-MuxWithDiffPrio-r17           ENUMERATED {enabled}                                      OPTIONAL,   -- Need R
    uci-MuxWithDiffPrioSecondaryPUCCHgroup-r17     ENUMERATED {enabled}                         OPTIONAL,   -- Cond twoPUCCHgroup
    simultaneousPUCCH-PUSCH-r17       ENUMERATED {enabled}                                      OPTIONAL,   -- Need R
    simultaneousPUCCH-PUSCH-SecondaryPUCCHgroup-r17       ENUMERATED {enabled}                  OPTIONAL,   -- Cond twoPUCCHgroup

    prioLowDG-HighCG-r17              ENUMERATED {enabled}                                      OPTIONAL,   -- Need R
    prioHighDG-LowCG-r17              ENUMERATED {enabled}                                      OPTIONAL,   -- Need R
    twoQCLTypeDforPDCCHRepetition-r17 ENUMERATED {enabled}                                      OPTIONAL,   -- Need R
    multicastConfig-r17               SetupRelease { MulticastConfig-r17 }                      OPTIONAL,   -- Need M
    pdcch-BlindDetectionCA-CombIndicator-r17 SetupRelease { PDCCH-BlindDetectionCA-CombIndicator-r17 }  OPTIONAL   -- Need M
    ]],
    [[
    simultaneousSR-PUSCH-diffPUCCH-Groups-r17      ENUMERATED {enabled}                         OPTIONAL    -- Cond twoPUCCHgroup
    ]],
    [[
    intraBandNC-PRACH-simulTx-r17     ENUMERATED {enabled}                                      OPTIONAL    -- Need R
    ]],
    [[
    pdcch-BlindDetection4-r17         SetupRelease { PDCCH-BlindDetection4-r17 }                OPTIONAL    -- Need M
    ]],
    [[
    simultaneousPUCCH-PUSCH-SamePriority-r17       ENUMERATED {enabled}                         OPTIONAL,   -- Need R
    simultaneousPUCCH-PUSCH-SamePriority-SecondaryPUCCHgroup-r17       ENUMERATED {enabled}     OPTIONAL    -- Cond twoPUCCHgroup
    ]],
    [[
    ncr-RNTI-r18                      RNTI-Value                                                OPTIONAL,   -- Cond NCR
    cellDTRX-DCI-config-r18           SetupRelease { CellDTRX-DCI-config-r18 }                  OPTIONAL,   -- Need M
    twoQCL-TypeD-ForMultiDCI-r18      ENUMERATED {enabled}                                      OPTIONAL,   -- Need R
    enableType1HARQ-ACK-MuxForDL-AssignmentAfterUL-Grant-r18           ENUMERATED {enabled}     OPTIONAL,   -- Need R
    enableType2HARQ-ACK-MuxForDL-AssignmentAfterUL-Grant-r18           ENUMERATED {enabled}     OPTIONAL,   -- Need R
    enableType3HARQ-ACK-MuxForDL-AssignmentAfterUL-Grant-r18           ENUMERATED {enabled}     OPTIONAL,   -- Need R
    enableDiffPUCCH-Resource-r18                                       ENUMERATED {enabled}     OPTIONAL,   -- Need R
    enableDiffCB-Size-r18                                              ENUMERATED {enabled}     OPTIONAL    -- Need R
    ]]
}

PDSCH-HARQ-ACK-EnhType3-r17 ::=         SEQUENCE {
    pdsch-HARQ-ACK-EnhType3Index-r17    PDSCH-HARQ-ACK-EnhType3Index-r17,
    applicable-r17   CHOICE {
        perCC                            SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxNrofServingCells)) OF INTEGER (0..1),
        perHARQ                          SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxNrofServingCells)) OF BIT STRING (SIZE (16))
    },
    pdsch-HARQ-ACK-EnhType3NDI-r17         ENUMERATED {true}                                            OPTIONAL,   -- Need R
    pdsch-HARQ-ACK-EnhType3CBG-r17         ENUMERATED {true}                                            OPTIONAL,   -- Need S
    ...,
    [[
    perHARQ-Ext-r17                     SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxNrofServingCells)) OF BIT STRING (SIZE (32)) OPTIONAL -- Need R
    ]]
}

PDSCH-HARQ-ACK-EnhType3Index-r17 ::=    INTEGER (0..maxNrofEnhType3HARQ-ACK-1-r17)

PDCCH-BlindDetection ::=                INTEGER (1..15)

DCP-Config-r16 ::=                  SEQUENCE {
    ps-RNTI-r16                         RNTI-Value,
    ps-Offset-r16                       INTEGER (1..120),
    sizeDCI-2-6-r16                     INTEGER (1..maxDCI-2-6-Size-r16),
    ps-PositionDCI-2-6-r16              INTEGER (0..maxDCI-2-6-Size-1-r16),
    ps-WakeUp-r16                       ENUMERATED {true}                                               OPTIONAL,   -- Need S
    ps-TransmitPeriodicL1-RSRP-r16      ENUMERATED {true}                                               OPTIONAL,   -- Need S
    ps-TransmitOtherPeriodicCSI-r16     ENUMERATED {true}                                               OPTIONAL    -- Need S
}

PDSCH-HARQ-ACK-CodebookList-r16 ::=     SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..2)) OF ENUMERATED {semiStatic, dynamic}

PDCCH-BlindDetectionCA-CombIndicator-r16 ::= SEQUENCE {
    pdcch-BlindDetectionCA1-r16                  INTEGER (1..15),
    pdcch-BlindDetectionCA2-r16                  INTEGER (1..15)
}

PDCCH-BlindDetection2-r16 ::=                INTEGER (1..15)

PDCCH-BlindDetection3-r16 ::=                INTEGER (1..15)

PDCCH-BlindDetection4-r17 ::=                INTEGER (1..15)

MulticastConfig-r17 ::=                 SEQUENCE {
    pdsch-HARQ-ACK-CodebookListMulticast-r17    SetupRelease { PDSCH-HARQ-ACK-CodebookList-r16}         OPTIONAL,   -- Need M
    type1CodebookGenerationMode-r17             ENUMERATED { mode1, mode2}                              OPTIONAL    -- Need M
}

PDCCH-BlindDetectionCA-CombIndicator-r17 ::= SEQUENCE {
    pdcch-BlindDetectionCA1-r17                  INTEGER (1..15)                                        OPTIONAL,   -- Need R
    pdcch-BlindDetectionCA2-r17                  INTEGER (1..15)                                        OPTIONAL,   -- Need R
    pdcch-BlindDetectionCA3-r17                  INTEGER (1..15)
}

CellDTRX-DCI-config-r18 ::=         SEQUENCE {
    cellDTRX-RNTI-r18                   RNTI-Value,
    sizeDCI-2-9-r18                     INTEGER (1..maxDCI-2-9-Size-r18)
}

-- TAG-PHYSICALCELLGROUPCONFIG-STOP
-- ASN1STOP











–	PLMN-Identity
The IE PLMN-Identity identifies a Public Land Mobile Network. Further information regarding how to set the IE is specified in TS 23.003 [21].
PLMN-Identity information element
-- ASN1START
-- TAG-PLMN-IDENTITY-START

PLMN-Identity ::=                   SEQUENCE {
    mcc                                 MCC                 OPTIONAL,                   -- Cond MCC
    mnc                                 MNC
}

MCC ::=                             SEQUENCE (SIZE (3)) OF MCC-MNC-Digit

MNC ::=                             SEQUENCE (SIZE (2..3)) OF MCC-MNC-Digit

MCC-MNC-Digit ::=                   INTEGER (0..9)

-- TAG-PLMN-IDENTITY-STOP
-- ASN1STOP





–	PLMN-IdentityInfoList
The IE PLMN-IdentityInfoList includes a list of PLMN identity information.
PLMN-IdentityInfoList information element
-- ASN1START
-- TAG-PLMN-IDENTITYINFOLIST-START

PLMN-IdentityInfoList ::=               SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxPLMN)) OF PLMN-IdentityInfo

PLMN-IdentityInfo ::=                   SEQUENCE {
    plmn-IdentityList                       SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxPLMN)) OF PLMN-Identity,
    trackingAreaCode                        TrackingAreaCode                                            OPTIONAL,       -- Need R
    ranac                                   RAN-AreaCode                                                OPTIONAL,       -- Need R
    cellIdentity                            CellIdentity,
    cellReservedForOperatorUse              ENUMERATED {reserved, notReserved},
    ...,
    [[
    iab-Support-r16                     ENUMERATED {true}                                               OPTIONAL       -- Need S
    ]],
    [[
    trackingAreaList-r17                SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxTAC-r17)) OF TrackingAreaCode             OPTIONAL,      -- Need R
    gNB-ID-Length-r17                   INTEGER (22..32)                                                OPTIONAL    -- Cond eventID-TSS
    ]],
    [[
    mobileIAB-Support-r18               ENUMERATED {true}                                               OPTIONAL       -- Need S
    ]]
}
-- TAG-PLMN-IDENTITYINFOLIST-STOP
-- ASN1STOP





–	PLMN-IdentityList2
Includes a list of PLMN identities.
PLMN-IdentityList2 information element
-- ASN1START
-- TAG-PLMNIDENTITYLIST2-START

PLMN-IdentityList2-r16 ::= SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..16)) OF PLMN-Identity

-- TAG-PLMNIDENTITYLIST2-STOP
-- ASN1STOP

–	PRB-Id
The IE PRB-Id identifies a Physical Resource Block (PRB) position within a carrier.
PRB-Id information element
-- ASN1START
-- TAG-PRB-ID-START

PRB-Id ::=                          INTEGER (0..maxNrofPhysicalResourceBlocks-1)

-- TAG-PRB-ID-STOP
-- ASN1STOP

–	PTRS-DownlinkConfig
The IE PTRS-DownlinkConfig is used to configure downlink phase tracking reference signals (PTRS) (see TS 38.214 [19] clause 5.1.6.3)
PTRS-DownlinkConfig information element
-- ASN1START
-- TAG-PTRS-DOWNLINKCONFIG-START

PTRS-DownlinkConfig ::=             SEQUENCE {
    frequencyDensity                    SEQUENCE (SIZE (2)) OF INTEGER (1..276)                                 OPTIONAL,   -- Need S
    timeDensity                         SEQUENCE (SIZE (3)) OF INTEGER (0..29)                                  OPTIONAL,   -- Need S
    epre-Ratio                          INTEGER (0..3)                                                          OPTIONAL,   -- Need S
    resourceElementOffset               ENUMERATED { offset01, offset10, offset11 }                             OPTIONAL,   -- Need S
    ...,
    [[
    maxNrofPorts-r16                    ENUMERATED {n1, n2}                                                     OPTIONAL    -- Need R
    ]]

}

-- TAG-PTRS-DOWNLINKCONFIG-STOP
-- ASN1STOP



–	PTRS-UplinkConfig
The IE PTRS-UplinkConfig is used to configure uplink Phase-Tracking-Reference-Signals (PTRS).
PTRS-UplinkConfig information element
-- ASN1START
-- TAG-PTRS-UPLINKCONFIG-START

PTRS-UplinkConfig ::=                   SEQUENCE {
    transformPrecoderDisabled               SEQUENCE {
        frequencyDensity                    SEQUENCE (SIZE (2)) OF INTEGER (1..276)                 OPTIONAL,   -- Need S
        timeDensity                         SEQUENCE (SIZE (3)) OF INTEGER (0..29)                  OPTIONAL,   -- Need S
        maxNrofPorts                        ENUMERATED {n1, n2},
        resourceElementOffset               ENUMERATED {offset01, offset10, offset11 }              OPTIONAL,   -- Need S
        ptrs-Power                          ENUMERATED {p00, p01, p10, p11}
    }                                                                                               OPTIONAL,   -- Need R
    transformPrecoderEnabled                SEQUENCE {
        sampleDensity                           SEQUENCE (SIZE (5)) OF INTEGER (1..276),
        timeDensityTransformPrecoding           ENUMERATED {d2}                                     OPTIONAL    -- Need S
    }                                                                                               OPTIONAL,   -- Need R
    ...,
   [[
   maxNrofPorts-SDM-r18                     ENUMERATED {n1, n2}                                     OPTIONAL    -- Need R
   ]]
}

-- TAG-PTRS-UPLINKCONFIG-STOP
-- ASN1STOP



–	PUCCH-Config
The IE PUCCH-Config is used to configure UE specific PUCCH parameters (per BWP).
PUCCH-Config information element
-- ASN1START
-- TAG-PUCCH-CONFIG-START

PUCCH-Config ::=                        SEQUENCE {
    resourceSetToAddModList                 SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxNrofPUCCH-ResourceSets)) OF PUCCH-ResourceSet   OPTIONAL, -- Need N
    resourceSetToReleaseList                SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxNrofPUCCH-ResourceSets)) OF PUCCH-ResourceSetId OPTIONAL, -- Need N
    resourceToAddModList                    SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxNrofPUCCH-Resources)) OF PUCCH-Resource         OPTIONAL, -- Need N
    resourceToReleaseList                   SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxNrofPUCCH-Resources)) OF PUCCH-ResourceId       OPTIONAL, -- Need N
    format1                                 SetupRelease { PUCCH-FormatConfig }                                   OPTIONAL, -- Need M
    format2                                 SetupRelease { PUCCH-FormatConfig }                                   OPTIONAL, -- Need M
    format3                                 SetupRelease { PUCCH-FormatConfig }                                   OPTIONAL, -- Need M
    format4                                 SetupRelease { PUCCH-FormatConfig }                                   OPTIONAL, -- Need M
    schedulingRequestResourceToAddModList   SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxNrofSR-Resources)) OF SchedulingRequestResourceConfig
                                                                                                                  OPTIONAL, -- Need N
    schedulingRequestResourceToReleaseList  SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxNrofSR-Resources)) OF SchedulingRequestResourceId
                                                                                                                  OPTIONAL, -- Need N
    multi-CSI-PUCCH-ResourceList            SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..2)) OF PUCCH-ResourceId                            OPTIONAL, -- Need M
    dl-DataToUL-ACK                         SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..8)) OF INTEGER (0..15)                             OPTIONAL, -- Need M
    spatialRelationInfoToAddModList         SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxNrofSpatialRelationInfos)) OF PUCCH-SpatialRelationInfo
                                                                                                                  OPTIONAL, -- Need N
    spatialRelationInfoToReleaseList        SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxNrofSpatialRelationInfos)) OF PUCCH-SpatialRelationInfoId
                                                                                                                  OPTIONAL, -- Need N
    pucch-PowerControl                      PUCCH-PowerControl                                                    OPTIONAL, -- Need M
    ...,
    [[
    resourceToAddModListExt-v1610           SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxNrofPUCCH-Resources)) OF PUCCH-ResourceExt-v1610  OPTIONAL, -- Need N
    dl-DataToUL-ACK-r16                     SetupRelease { DL-DataToUL-ACK-r16 }                                  OPTIONAL, -- Need M
    ul-AccessConfigListDCI-1-1-r16          SetupRelease { UL-AccessConfigListDCI-1-1-r16 }                       OPTIONAL, -- Need M
    subslotLengthForPUCCH-r16               CHOICE {
            normalCP-r16                        ENUMERATED {n2,n7},
            extendedCP-r16                      ENUMERATED {n2,n6}
    }                                                                                                             OPTIONAL, -- Need R
    dl-DataToUL-ACK-DCI-1-2-r16             SetupRelease { DL-DataToUL-ACK-DCI-1-2-r16}                           OPTIONAL, -- Need M
    numberOfBitsForPUCCH-ResourceIndicatorDCI-1-2-r16  INTEGER (0..3)                                             OPTIONAL, -- Need R
    dmrs-UplinkTransformPrecodingPUCCH-r16  ENUMERATED {enabled}                                                  OPTIONAL,  -- Cond PI2-BPSK
    spatialRelationInfoToAddModListSizeExt-v1610    SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxNrofSpatialRelationInfosDiff-r16)) OF PUCCH-SpatialRelationInfo
                                                                                                                  OPTIONAL, -- Need N
    spatialRelationInfoToReleaseListSizeExt-v1610   SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxNrofSpatialRelationInfosDiff-r16)) OF PUCCH-SpatialRelationInfoId
                                                                                                                  OPTIONAL, -- Need N
    spatialRelationInfoToAddModListExt-v1610  SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxNrofSpatialRelationInfos-r16)) OF PUCCH-SpatialRelationInfoExt-r16
                                                                                                                  OPTIONAL, -- Need N
    spatialRelationInfoToReleaseListExt-v1610    SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxNrofSpatialRelationInfos-r16)) OF
                                                                            PUCCH-SpatialRelationInfoId-r16       OPTIONAL, -- Need N
    resourceGroupToAddModList-r16           SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxNrofPUCCH-ResourceGroups-r16)) OF PUCCH-ResourceGroup-r16
                                                                                                                  OPTIONAL, -- Need N
    resourceGroupToReleaseList-r16          SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxNrofPUCCH-ResourceGroups-r16)) OF PUCCH-ResourceGroupId-r16
                                                                                                                  OPTIONAL, -- Need N
    sps-PUCCH-AN-List-r16                   SetupRelease { SPS-PUCCH-AN-List-r16 }                                OPTIONAL,  -- Need M
    schedulingRequestResourceToAddModListExt-v1610   SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxNrofSR-Resources)) OF SchedulingRequestResourceConfigExt-v1610
                                                                                                                  OPTIONAL -- Need N
    ]],
    [[
    format0-r17                             SetupRelease { PUCCH-FormatConfig }                                   OPTIONAL, -- Need M
    format2Ext-r17                          SetupRelease { PUCCH-FormatConfigExt-r17 }                            OPTIONAL, -- Need M
    format3Ext-r17                          SetupRelease { PUCCH-FormatConfigExt-r17 }                            OPTIONAL, -- Need M
    format4Ext-r17                          SetupRelease { PUCCH-FormatConfigExt-r17 }                            OPTIONAL, -- Need M
    ul-AccessConfigListDCI-1-2-r17          SetupRelease { UL-AccessConfigListDCI-1-2-r17 }                       OPTIONAL, -- Need M
    mappingPattern-r17                      ENUMERATED {cyclicMapping, sequentialMapping}                         OPTIONAL, -- Need R
    powerControlSetInfoToAddModList-r17     SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxNrofPowerControlSetInfos-r17)) OF PUCCH-PowerControlSetInfo-r17
                                                                                                                  OPTIONAL, -- Need N
    powerControlSetInfoToReleaseList-r17    SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxNrofPowerControlSetInfos-r17)) OF PUCCH-PowerControlSetInfoId-r17
                                                                                                                  OPTIONAL, -- Need N
    secondTPCFieldDCI-1-1-r17               ENUMERATED {enabled}                                                  OPTIONAL, -- Need R
    secondTPCFieldDCI-1-2-r17               ENUMERATED {enabled}                                                  OPTIONAL, -- Need R
    dl-DataToUL-ACK-r17                     SetupRelease { DL-DataToUL-ACK-r17 }                                  OPTIONAL, -- Need M
    dl-DataToUL-ACK-DCI-1-2-r17             SetupRelease { DL-DataToUL-ACK-DCI-1-2-r17}                           OPTIONAL, -- Need M
    ul-AccessConfigListDCI-1-1-r17          SetupRelease { UL-AccessConfigListDCI-1-1-r17 }                       OPTIONAL, -- Need M
    schedulingRequestResourceToAddModListExt-v1700 SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxNrofSR-Resources)) OF SchedulingRequestResourceConfigExt-v1700
                                                                                                                  OPTIONAL, -- Need N
    dmrs-BundlingPUCCH-Config-r17           SetupRelease { DMRS-BundlingPUCCH-Config-r17 }                        OPTIONAL, -- Need M
    dl-DataToUL-ACK-v1700                   SetupRelease { DL-DataToUL-ACK-v1700 }                                OPTIONAL, -- Need M
    dl-DataToUL-ACK-MulticastDCI-Format4-1-r17 SetupRelease { DL-DataToUL-ACK-MulticastDCI-Format4-1-r17 }        OPTIONAL, -- Need M
    sps-PUCCH-AN-ListMulticast-r17          SetupRelease { SPS-PUCCH-AN-List-r16 }                                OPTIONAL  -- Need M
    ]]
}

PUCCH-FormatConfig ::=                  SEQUENCE {
    interslotFrequencyHopping               ENUMERATED {enabled}                                                  OPTIONAL, -- Need R
    additionalDMRS                          ENUMERATED {true}                                                     OPTIONAL, -- Need R
    maxCodeRate                             PUCCH-MaxCodeRate                                                     OPTIONAL, -- Need R
    nrofSlots                               ENUMERATED {n2,n4,n8}                                                 OPTIONAL, -- Need S
    pi2BPSK                                 ENUMERATED {enabled}                                                  OPTIONAL, -- Need R
    simultaneousHARQ-ACK-CSI                ENUMERATED {true}                                                     OPTIONAL  -- Need R
}

PUCCH-FormatConfigExt-r17 ::=           SEQUENCE {
    maxCodeRateLP-r17                       PUCCH-MaxCodeRate                                                     OPTIONAL, -- Need R
    ...
}

PUCCH-MaxCodeRate ::=                   ENUMERATED {zeroDot08, zeroDot15, zeroDot25, zeroDot35, zeroDot45, zeroDot60, zeroDot80}

-- A set with one or more PUCCH resources
PUCCH-ResourceSet ::=                   SEQUENCE {
    pucch-ResourceSetId                     PUCCH-ResourceSetId,
    resourceList                            SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxNrofPUCCH-ResourcesPerSet)) OF PUCCH-ResourceId,
    maxPayloadSize                          INTEGER (4..256)                                                      OPTIONAL  -- Need R
}

PUCCH-ResourceSetId ::=                 INTEGER (0..maxNrofPUCCH-ResourceSets-1)

PUCCH-Resource ::=                      SEQUENCE {
    pucch-ResourceId                        PUCCH-ResourceId,
    startingPRB                             PRB-Id,
    intraSlotFrequencyHopping               ENUMERATED { enabled }                                                OPTIONAL, -- Need R
    secondHopPRB                            PRB-Id                                                                OPTIONAL, -- Need R
    format                                  CHOICE {
        format0                                 PUCCH-format0,
        format1                                 PUCCH-format1,
        format2                                 PUCCH-format2,
        format3                                 PUCCH-format3,
        format4                                 PUCCH-format4
    }
}

PUCCH-ResourceExt-v1610 ::=             SEQUENCE {
    interlaceAllocation-r16                 SEQUENCE {
        rb-SetIndex-r16                         INTEGER (0..4),
        interlace0-r16                          CHOICE {
            scs15                                   INTEGER (0..9),
            scs30                                   INTEGER (0..4)
        }
    }                                                                                                             OPTIONAL,  --Need R
    format-v1610                            CHOICE {
        interlace1-v1610                        INTEGER (0..9),
        occ-v1610                               SEQUENCE {
            occ-Length-v1610                        ENUMERATED {n2,n4}                                            OPTIONAL, -- Need M
            occ-Index-v1610                         ENUMERATED {n0,n1,n2,n3}                                      OPTIONAL  -- Need M
        }
    }                                                                                                             OPTIONAL,  -- Need R
    ...,
    [[
    format-v1700                            SEQUENCE {
        nrofPRBs-r17                            INTEGER (1..16)
    }                                                                                                             OPTIONAL,  -- Need R
    pucch-RepetitionNrofSlots-r17           ENUMERATED { n1,n2,n4,n8 }                                            OPTIONAL   -- Need R
    ]],
    [[
    applyIndicatedTCI-State-r18             ENUMERATED {first, second, both, spare1}                              OPTIONAL, -- Need R
    multipanelSFN-Scheme-r18                ENUMERATED {enabled}                                                  OPTIONAL, -- Need R
    dl-DataToUL-ACK-r18                     SetupRelease { DL-DataToUL-ACK-r18 }                                  OPTIONAL, -- Need M
    dl-DataToUL-ACK-DCI-1-2-r18             SetupRelease { DL-DataToUL-ACK-DCI-1-2-r18}                           OPTIONAL   -- Need M
    ]]
}

PUCCH-ResourceId ::=                    INTEGER (0..maxNrofPUCCH-Resources-1)


PUCCH-format0 ::=                               SEQUENCE {
    initialCyclicShift                              INTEGER(0..11),
    nrofSymbols                                     INTEGER (1..2),
    startingSymbolIndex                             INTEGER(0..13)
}

PUCCH-format1 ::=                               SEQUENCE {
    initialCyclicShift                              INTEGER(0..11),
    nrofSymbols                                     INTEGER (4..14),
    startingSymbolIndex                             INTEGER(0..10),
    timeDomainOCC                                   INTEGER(0..6)
}

PUCCH-format2 ::=                               SEQUENCE {
    nrofPRBs                                        INTEGER (1..16),
    nrofSymbols                                     INTEGER (1..2),
    startingSymbolIndex                             INTEGER(0..13)
}

PUCCH-format3 ::=                               SEQUENCE {
    nrofPRBs                                        INTEGER (1..16),
    nrofSymbols                                     INTEGER (4..14),
    startingSymbolIndex                             INTEGER(0..10)
}

PUCCH-format4 ::=                               SEQUENCE {
    nrofSymbols                                     INTEGER (4..14),
    occ-Length                                      ENUMERATED {n2,n4},
    occ-Index                                       ENUMERATED {n0,n1,n2,n3},
    startingSymbolIndex                             INTEGER(0..10)
}

PUCCH-ResourceGroup-r16 ::=                SEQUENCE {
    pucch-ResourceGroupId-r16                  PUCCH-ResourceGroupId-r16,
    resourcePerGroupList-r16                   SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxNrofPUCCH-ResourcesPerGroup-r16)) OF PUCCH-ResourceId
}

PUCCH-ResourceGroupId-r16 ::=              INTEGER (0..maxNrofPUCCH-ResourceGroups-1-r16)

DL-DataToUL-ACK-r16 ::=                    SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..8)) OF INTEGER (-1..15)

DL-DataToUL-ACK-r17 ::=                    SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..8)) OF INTEGER (-1..127)

DL-DataToUL-ACK-v1700 ::=                  SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..8)) OF INTEGER (16..31)

DL-DataToUL-ACK-r18 ::=                    SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..8)) OF INTEGER (0..31)

DL-DataToUL-ACK-DCI-1-2-r16 ::=            SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..8)) OF INTEGER (0..15)

DL-DataToUL-ACK-DCI-1-2-r17 ::=            SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..8)) OF INTEGER (0..127)

DL-DataToUL-ACK-DCI-1-2-r18 ::=            SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..8)) OF INTEGER (0..31)

UL-AccessConfigListDCI-1-1-r16 ::=         SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..16)) OF INTEGER (0..15)

UL-AccessConfigListDCI-1-2-r17 ::=         SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..16)) OF INTEGER (0..15)

UL-AccessConfigListDCI-1-1-r17 ::=         SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..3)) OF INTEGER (0..2)

DL-DataToUL-ACK-MulticastDCI-Format4-1-r17 ::= SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..8)) OF INTEGER (0..15)

-- TAG-PUCCH-CONFIG-STOP
-- ASN1STOP














–	PUCCH-ConfigCommon
The IE PUCCH-ConfigCommon is used to configure the cell specific PUCCH parameters.
PUCCH-ConfigCommon information element
-- ASN1START
-- TAG-PUCCH-CONFIGCOMMON-START

PUCCH-ConfigCommon ::=              SEQUENCE {
    pucch-ResourceCommon                INTEGER (0..15)                                      OPTIONAL,   -- Cond InitialBWP-Only
    pucch-GroupHopping                  ENUMERATED { neither, enable, disable },
    hoppingId                           INTEGER (0..1023)                                    OPTIONAL,   -- Need R
    p0-nominal                          INTEGER (-202..24)                                   OPTIONAL,   -- Need R
    ...,
    [[
    nrofPRBs                            INTEGER (1..16)                                      OPTIONAL,   -- Need R
    intra-SlotFH-r17                    ENUMERATED {fromLowerEdge, fromUpperEdge}            OPTIONAL,   -- Cond InitialBWP-RedCapOnly
    pucch-ResourceCommonRedCap-r17     INTEGER (0..15)                                      OPTIONAL,   -- Cond InitialBWP-RedCap
    additionalPRBOffset-r17                 ENUMERATED {n2, n3, n4, n6, n8, n9, n10, n12}        OPTIONAL    -- Cond InitialBWP-RedCapOnly
    ]]
}

-- TAG-PUCCH-CONFIGCOMMON-STOP
-- ASN1STOP





–	PUCCH-ConfigurationList
The IE PUCCH-ConfigurationList is used to configure UE specific PUCCH parameters (per BWP) for two simultaneously constructed HARQ-ACK codebooks. See TS 38.213 [13], clause 9.1.
PUCCH-ConfigurationList information element
-- ASN1START
-- TAG-PUCCH-CONFIGURATIONLIST-START

PUCCH-ConfigurationList-r16  ::=     SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..2)) OF PUCCH-Config

-- TAG-PUCCH-CONFIGURATIONLIST-STOP
-- ASN1STOP

–	PUCCH-CSI-Resource
The IE PUCCH-CSI-Resource is used to indicate a PUCCH resource to use for reporting on PUCCH.
PUCCH-CSI-Resource information element
-- ASN1START
-- TAG-PUCCH-CSI-RESOURCE-START

PUCCH-CSI-Resource ::=              SEQUENCE {
    uplinkBandwidthPartId               BWP-Id,
    pucch-Resource                      PUCCH-ResourceId
}

-- TAG-PUCCH-CSI-RESOURCE-STOP
-- ASN1STOP



–	PUCCH-PathlossReferenceRS-Id
The IE PUCCH-PathlossReferenceRS-Id is an ID for a reference signal (RS) configured as PUCCH pathloss reference (see TS 38.213 [13], clause 7.2).
PUCCH-PathlossReferenceRS-Id information element
-- ASN1START
-- TAG-PUCCH-PATHLOSSREFERENCERS-ID-START

PUCCH-PathlossReferenceRS-Id ::=            INTEGER (0..maxNrofPUCCH-PathlossReferenceRSs-1)

PUCCH-PathlossReferenceRS-Id-v1610 ::=      INTEGER (maxNrofPUCCH-PathlossReferenceRSs..maxNrofPUCCH-PathlossReferenceRSs-1-r16)

PUCCH-PathlossReferenceRS-Id-r17 ::=        INTEGER (0..maxNrofPUCCH-PathlossReferenceRSs-1-r17)

-- TAG-PUCCH-PATHLOSSREFERENCERS-ID-STOP
-- ASN1STOP

–	PUCCH-PowerControl
The IE PUCCH-PowerControl is used to configure UE-specific parameters for the power control of PUCCH.
PUCCH-PowerControl information element
-- ASN1START
-- TAG-PUCCH-POWERCONTROL-START
PUCCH-PowerControl ::=              SEQUENCE {
    deltaF-PUCCH-f0                     INTEGER (-16..15)                                                       OPTIONAL, -- Need R
    deltaF-PUCCH-f1                     INTEGER (-16..15)                                                       OPTIONAL, -- Need R
    deltaF-PUCCH-f2                     INTEGER (-16..15)                                                       OPTIONAL, -- Need R
    deltaF-PUCCH-f3                     INTEGER (-16..15)                                                       OPTIONAL, -- Need R
    deltaF-PUCCH-f4                     INTEGER (-16..15)                                                       OPTIONAL, -- Need R
    p0-Set                              SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxNrofPUCCH-P0-PerSet)) OF P0-PUCCH                 OPTIONAL, -- Need M
    pathlossReferenceRSs                SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxNrofPUCCH-PathlossReferenceRSs)) OF PUCCH-PathlossReferenceRS
                                                                                                                OPTIONAL, -- Need M
    twoPUCCH-PC-AdjustmentStates        ENUMERATED {twoStates}                                                  OPTIONAL, -- Need S
    ...,
    [[
    pathlossReferenceRSs-v1610          SetupRelease { PathlossReferenceRSs-v1610 }                             OPTIONAL -- Need M
    ]]
}

P0-PUCCH ::=                            SEQUENCE {
    p0-PUCCH-Id                             P0-PUCCH-Id,
    p0-PUCCH-Value                          INTEGER (-16..15)
}

P0-PUCCH-Id ::=                         INTEGER (1..8)

PathlossReferenceRSs-v1610 ::=          SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxNrofPUCCH-PathlossReferenceRSsDiff-r16)) OF PUCCH-PathlossReferenceRS-r16

PUCCH-PathlossReferenceRS ::=                   SEQUENCE {
    pucch-PathlossReferenceRS-Id                PUCCH-PathlossReferenceRS-Id,
    referenceSignal                             CHOICE {
        ssb-Index                                   SSB-Index,
        csi-RS-Index                                NZP-CSI-RS-ResourceId
    }
}

PUCCH-PathlossReferenceRS-r16 ::=                   SEQUENCE {
    pucch-PathlossReferenceRS-Id-r16                    PUCCH-PathlossReferenceRS-Id-v1610,
    referenceSignal-r16                                 CHOICE {
        ssb-Index-r16                                       SSB-Index,
        csi-RS-Index-r16                                    NZP-CSI-RS-ResourceId
    }
}

PUCCH-PowerControlSetInfo-r17 ::=       SEQUENCE {
    pucch-PowerControlSetInfoId-r17         PUCCH-PowerControlSetInfoId-r17,
    p0-PUCCH-Id-r17                         P0-PUCCH-Id,
    pucch-ClosedLoopIndex-r17               ENUMERATED { i0, i1 },
    pucch-PathlossReferenceRS-Id-r17        PUCCH-PathlossReferenceRS-Id-r17
}

PUCCH-PowerControlSetInfoId-r17 ::=     INTEGER (1.. maxNrofPowerControlSetInfos-r17)

-- TAG-PUCCH-POWERCONTROL-STOP
-- ASN1STOP






–	PUCCH-SpatialRelationInfo
The IE PUCCH-SpatialRelationInfo is used to configure the spatial setting for PUCCH transmission and the parameters for PUCCH power control, see TS 38.213, [13], clause 9.2.2.
PUCCH-SpatialRelationInfo information element
-- ASN1START
-- TAG-PUCCH-SPATIALRELATIONINFO-START

PUCCH-SpatialRelationInfo ::=           SEQUENCE {
    pucch-SpatialRelationInfoId         PUCCH-SpatialRelationInfoId,
    servingCellId                           ServCellIndex                                                    OPTIONAL,   -- Need S
    referenceSignal                         CHOICE {
        ssb-Index                               SSB-Index,
        csi-RS-Index                            NZP-CSI-RS-ResourceId,
        srs                                     PUCCH-SRS
    },
    pucch-PathlossReferenceRS-Id            PUCCH-PathlossReferenceRS-Id,
    p0-PUCCH-Id                             P0-PUCCH-Id,
    closedLoopIndex                         ENUMERATED { i0, i1 }
}

PUCCH-SpatialRelationInfoExt-r16 ::=       SEQUENCE {
    pucch-SpatialRelationInfoId-v1610         PUCCH-SpatialRelationInfoId-v1610                              OPTIONAL,   -- Need S
    pucch-PathlossReferenceRS-Id-v1610        PUCCH-PathlossReferenceRS-Id-v1610                             OPTIONAL,    --Need R
    ...
}

PUCCH-SRS ::=                       SEQUENCE {
    resource                            SRS-ResourceId,
    uplinkBWP                           BWP-Id
}

-- TAG-PUCCH-SPATIALRELATIONINFO-STOP
-- ASN1STOP



–	PUCCH-SpatialRelationInfo-Id
The IE PUCCH-SpatialRelationInfo-Id is used to identify a PUCCH-SpatialRelationInfo
PUCCH-SpatialRelationInfo-Id information element
-- ASN1START
-- TAG-PUCCH-SPATIALRELATIONINFO-START

PUCCH-SpatialRelationInfoId ::=         INTEGER (1..maxNrofSpatialRelationInfos)

PUCCH-SpatialRelationInfoId-r16 ::=     INTEGER (1..maxNrofSpatialRelationInfos-r16)

PUCCH-SpatialRelationInfoId-v1610::=    INTEGER (maxNrofSpatialRelationInfos-plus-1..maxNrofSpatialRelationInfos-r16)

-- TAG-PUCCH-SPATIALRELATIONINFO-STOP
-- ASN1STOP

–	PUCCH-TPC-CommandConfig
The IE PUCCH-TPC-CommandConfig is used to configure the UE for extracting TPC commands for PUCCH from a group-TPC messages on DCI.
PUCCH-TPC-CommandConfig information element
-- ASN1START
-- TAG-PUCCH-TPC-COMMANDCONFIG-START

PUCCH-TPC-CommandConfig ::=             SEQUENCE {
    tpc-IndexPCell                          INTEGER (1..15)                         OPTIONAL,   -- Cond PDCCH-OfSpcell
    tpc-IndexPUCCH-SCell                    INTEGER (1..15)                         OPTIONAL,   -- Cond PDCCH-ofSpCellOrPUCCH-SCell
    ...,
    [[
    tpc-IndexPUCCH-sSCell-r17                             INTEGER (1..15)                         OPTIONAL,  -- Need R
    tpc-IndexPUCCH-sScellSecondaryPUCCHgroup-r17          INTEGER (1..15)                         OPTIONAL   -- Cond twoPUCCHgroup
    ]]
}

-- TAG-PUCCH-TPC-COMMANDCONFIG-STOP
-- ASN1STOP





–	PUSCH-Config
The IE PUSCH-Config is used to configure the UE specific PUSCH parameters applicable to a particular BWP.
PUSCH-Config information element
-- ASN1START
-- TAG-PUSCH-CONFIG-START

PUSCH-Config ::=                        SEQUENCE {
    dataScramblingIdentityPUSCH             INTEGER (0..1023)                                                   OPTIONAL,   -- Need S
    txConfig                                ENUMERATED {codebook, nonCodebook}                                  OPTIONAL,   -- Need S
    dmrs-UplinkForPUSCH-MappingTypeA        SetupRelease { DMRS-UplinkConfig }                                  OPTIONAL,   -- Need M
    dmrs-UplinkForPUSCH-MappingTypeB        SetupRelease { DMRS-UplinkConfig }                                  OPTIONAL,   -- Need M
    pusch-PowerControl                      PUSCH-PowerControl                                                  OPTIONAL,   -- Need M
    frequencyHopping                        ENUMERATED {intraSlot, interSlot}                                   OPTIONAL,   -- Need S
    frequencyHoppingOffsetLists             SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..4)) OF INTEGER (1.. maxNrofPhysicalResourceBlocks-1)
                                                                                                                OPTIONAL,   -- Need M
    resourceAllocation                      ENUMERATED { resourceAllocationType0, resourceAllocationType1, dynamicSwitch},
    pusch-TimeDomainAllocationList          SetupRelease { PUSCH-TimeDomainResourceAllocationList }             OPTIONAL,   -- Need M
    pusch-AggregationFactor                 ENUMERATED { n2, n4, n8 }                                           OPTIONAL,   -- Need S
    mcs-Table                               ENUMERATED {qam256, qam64LowSE}                                     OPTIONAL,   -- Need S
    mcs-TableTransformPrecoder              ENUMERATED {qam256, qam64LowSE}                                     OPTIONAL,   -- Need S
    transformPrecoder                       ENUMERATED {enabled, disabled}                                      OPTIONAL,   -- Need S
    codebookSubset                          ENUMERATED {fullyAndPartialAndNonCoherent, partialAndNonCoherent,nonCoherent}
                                                                                                          OPTIONAL, -- Cond codebookBased
    maxRank                                 INTEGER (1..4)                                                OPTIONAL, -- Cond codebookBased
    rbg-Size                                ENUMERATED { config2}                                         OPTIONAL, -- Need S
    uci-OnPUSCH                             SetupRelease { UCI-OnPUSCH}                                   OPTIONAL, -- Need M
    tp-pi2BPSK                              ENUMERATED {enabled}                                          OPTIONAL, -- Need S
    ...,
    [[
    minimumSchedulingOffsetK2-r16           SetupRelease { MinSchedulingOffsetK2-Values-r16 }             OPTIONAL,  -- Need M
    ul-AccessConfigListDCI-0-1-r16          SetupRelease { UL-AccessConfigListDCI-0-1-r16 }               OPTIONAL,  -- Need M
    -- Start of the parameters for DCI format 0_2 introduced in V16.1.0
    harq-ProcessNumberSizeDCI-0-2-r16                       INTEGER (0..4)                                OPTIONAL,   -- Need R
    dmrs-SequenceInitializationDCI-0-2-r16                  ENUMERATED {enabled}                          OPTIONAL,   -- Need S
    numberOfBitsForRV-DCI-0-2-r16                           INTEGER (0..2)                                OPTIONAL,   -- Need R
    antennaPortsFieldPresenceDCI-0-2-r16                    ENUMERATED {enabled}                          OPTIONAL,   -- Need S
    dmrs-UplinkForPUSCH-MappingTypeA-DCI-0-2-r16            SetupRelease { DMRS-UplinkConfig }            OPTIONAL,   -- Need M
    dmrs-UplinkForPUSCH-MappingTypeB-DCI-0-2-r16            SetupRelease { DMRS-UplinkConfig }            OPTIONAL,   -- Need M
    frequencyHoppingDCI-0-2-r16                             CHOICE {
        pusch-RepTypeA                                          ENUMERATED {intraSlot, interSlot},
        pusch-RepTypeB                                          ENUMERATED {interRepetition, interSlot}
    }                                                                                                     OPTIONAL,   -- Need S
    frequencyHoppingOffsetListsDCI-0-2-r16  SetupRelease { FrequencyHoppingOffsetListsDCI-0-2-r16}        OPTIONAL,  -- Need M
    codebookSubsetDCI-0-2-r16               ENUMERATED {fullyAndPartialAndNonCoherent, partialAndNonCoherent,nonCoherent}
                                                                                                          OPTIONAL,   -- Cond codebookBased
    invalidSymbolPatternIndicatorDCI-0-2-r16                ENUMERATED {enabled}                          OPTIONAL,   -- Need S
    maxRankDCI-0-2-r16                                      INTEGER (1..4)                                OPTIONAL,   -- Cond codebookBased
    mcs-TableDCI-0-2-r16                                    ENUMERATED {qam256, qam64LowSE}               OPTIONAL,   -- Need S
    mcs-TableTransformPrecoderDCI-0-2-r16                   ENUMERATED {qam256, qam64LowSE}               OPTIONAL,   -- Need S
    priorityIndicatorDCI-0-2-r16                            ENUMERATED {enabled}                          OPTIONAL,   -- Need S
    pusch-RepTypeIndicatorDCI-0-2-r16                       ENUMERATED { pusch-RepTypeA, pusch-RepTypeB}  OPTIONAL,  -- Need R
    resourceAllocationDCI-0-2-r16                           ENUMERATED { resourceAllocationType0, resourceAllocationType1, dynamicSwitch}
                                                                                                          OPTIONAL,   -- Need M
    resourceAllocationType1GranularityDCI-0-2-r16           ENUMERATED { n2,n4,n8,n16 }                   OPTIONAL,   -- Need S
    uci-OnPUSCH-ListDCI-0-2-r16                             SetupRelease { UCI-OnPUSCH-ListDCI-0-2-r16}   OPTIONAL,   -- Need M
    pusch-TimeDomainAllocationListDCI-0-2-r16               SetupRelease { PUSCH-TimeDomainResourceAllocationList-r16 }
                                                                                                          OPTIONAL,   -- Need M
    -- End of the parameters for DCI format 0_2 introduced in V16.1.0
    -- Start of the parameters for DCI format 0_1 introduced in V16.1.0
    pusch-TimeDomainAllocationListDCI-0-1-r16               SetupRelease { PUSCH-TimeDomainResourceAllocationList-r16 }
                                                                                                          OPTIONAL,   -- Need M
    invalidSymbolPatternIndicatorDCI-0-1-r16          ENUMERATED {enabled}                                OPTIONAL,   -- Need S
    priorityIndicatorDCI-0-1-r16                      ENUMERATED {enabled}                                OPTIONAL,   -- Need S
    pusch-RepTypeIndicatorDCI-0-1-r16                 ENUMERATED { pusch-RepTypeA, pusch-RepTypeB}        OPTIONAL,   -- Need R
    frequencyHoppingDCI-0-1-r16                 ENUMERATED {interRepetition, interSlot}                   OPTIONAL,   -- Cond RepTypeB
    uci-OnPUSCH-ListDCI-0-1-r16                 SetupRelease { UCI-OnPUSCH-ListDCI-0-1-r16  }             OPTIONAL,  -- Need M
    -- End of the parameters for DCI format 0_1 introduced in V16.1.0
    invalidSymbolPattern-r16                    InvalidSymbolPattern-r16                                  OPTIONAL,   -- Need S
    pusch-PowerControl-v1610                SetupRelease {PUSCH-PowerControl-v1610}                       OPTIONAL,   -- Need M
    ul-FullPowerTransmission-r16            ENUMERATED {fullpower, fullpowerMode1, fullpowerMode2}         OPTIONAL,   -- Need R
    pusch-TimeDomainAllocationListForMultiPUSCH-r16  SetupRelease { PUSCH-TimeDomainResourceAllocationList-r16 }
                                                                                                          OPTIONAL,  --  Need M
    numberOfInvalidSymbolsForDL-UL-Switching-r16        INTEGER (1..4)                                    OPTIONAL    -- Cond RepTypeB2
    ]],
    [[
    ul-AccessConfigListDCI-0-2-r17          SetupRelease { UL-AccessConfigListDCI-0-2-r17 }               OPTIONAL,  -- Need M
    betaOffsetsCrossPri0-r17                SetupRelease { BetaOffsetsCrossPriSel-r17 }                   OPTIONAL,  -- Need M
    betaOffsetsCrossPri1-r17                SetupRelease { BetaOffsetsCrossPriSel-r17 }                   OPTIONAL,  -- Need M
    betaOffsetsCrossPri0DCI-0-2-r17         SetupRelease { BetaOffsetsCrossPriSelDCI-0-2-r17 }            OPTIONAL,  -- Need M
    betaOffsetsCrossPri1DCI-0-2-r17         SetupRelease { BetaOffsetsCrossPriSelDCI-0-2-r17 }            OPTIONAL,  -- Need M
    mappingPattern-r17                      ENUMERATED {cyclicMapping, sequentialMapping}                 OPTIONAL,  -- Cond SRSsets
    secondTPCFieldDCI-0-1-r17               ENUMERATED {enabled}                                          OPTIONAL,  -- Need R
    secondTPCFieldDCI-0-2-r17               ENUMERATED {enabled}                                          OPTIONAL,  -- Need R
    sequenceOffsetForRV-r17                 INTEGER (0..3)                                                OPTIONAL,  -- Need R
    ul-AccessConfigListDCI-0-1-r17          SetupRelease { UL-AccessConfigListDCI-0-1-r17 }                OPTIONAL,  -- Need M
    minimumSchedulingOffsetK2-r17           SetupRelease { MinSchedulingOffsetK2-Values-r17 }              OPTIONAL,  -- Need M
    availableSlotCounting-r17               ENUMERATED { enabled }                                         OPTIONAL,  -- Need S
    dmrs-BundlingPUSCH-Config-r17           SetupRelease { DMRS-BundlingPUSCH-Config-r17 }                 OPTIONAL,  -- Need M
    harq-ProcessNumberSizeDCI-0-2-v1700     INTEGER (5)                                                    OPTIONAL,  -- Need R
    harq-ProcessNumberSizeDCI-0-1-r17       INTEGER (5)                                                    OPTIONAL,  -- Need R
    mpe-ResourcePoolToAddModList-r17       SEQUENCE (SIZE(1..maxMPE-Resources-r17)) OF MPE-Resource-r17    OPTIONAL,  -- Need N
    mpe-ResourcePoolToReleaseList-r17      SEQUENCE (SIZE(1..maxMPE-Resources-r17)) OF MPE-ResourceId-r17  OPTIONAL   -- Need N
    ]],
    [[
    maxRank-v1810                           INTEGER (5..8)                                              OPTIONAL, -- Need R
    sTx-2Panel-r18                          ENUMERATED {enabled}                                           OPTIONAL,  -- Need R
    multipanelSchemeSDM-r18                 SDM-Scheme-r18                                                 OPTIONAL,  -- Need R
    multipanelSchemeSFN-r18                 SFN-Scheme-r18                                                 OPTIONAL,  -- Need R
    codebookTypeUL-r18                      SetupRelease { CodebookTypeUL-r18 }                            OPTIONAL,  -- Need M
    applyIndicatedTCI-State-r18             ENUMERATED {first, second}                                     OPTIONAL,  -- Need R
    dynamicTransformPrecoderFieldPresenceDCI-0-1-r18    ENUMERATED {enabled}                               OPTIONAL,  -- Need R
    dynamicTransformPrecoderFieldPresenceDCI-0-2-r18    ENUMERATED {enabled}                               OPTIONAL,  -- Need R
    pusch-ConfigDCI-0-3-r18                 SetupRelease { PUSCH-ConfigDCI-0-3-r18 }                       OPTIONAL   -- Need M
    ]]
}

UCI-OnPUSCH ::=                         SEQUENCE {
    betaOffsets                             CHOICE {
        dynamic                             SEQUENCE (SIZE (4)) OF BetaOffsets,
        semiStatic                          BetaOffsets
    }                                                                                                 OPTIONAL, -- Need M
    scaling                                 ENUMERATED { f0p5, f0p65, f0p8, f1 }
}

MinSchedulingOffsetK2-Values-r16 ::=    SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxNrOfMinSchedulingOffsetValues-r16)) OF INTEGER (0..maxK2-SchedulingOffset-r16)

MinSchedulingOffsetK2-Values-r17 ::=    SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxNrOfMinSchedulingOffsetValues-r16)) OF INTEGER (0..maxK2-SchedulingOffset-r17)

UCI-OnPUSCH-DCI-0-2-r16 ::=             SEQUENCE {
    betaOffsetsDCI-0-2-r16                  CHOICE {
        dynamicDCI-0-2-r16                      CHOICE {
            oneBit-r16                              SEQUENCE (SIZE (2)) OF BetaOffsets,
            twoBits-r16                             SEQUENCE (SIZE (4)) OF BetaOffsets
        },
        semiStaticDCI-0-2-r16          BetaOffsets
    }                                                                                                 OPTIONAL,   -- Need M
    scalingDCI-0-2-r16                 ENUMERATED { f0p5, f0p65, f0p8, f1 }
}

FrequencyHoppingOffsetListsDCI-0-2-r16 ::=  SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..4)) OF INTEGER (1.. maxNrofPhysicalResourceBlocks-1)

UCI-OnPUSCH-ListDCI-0-2-r16 ::=  SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..2)) OF UCI-OnPUSCH-DCI-0-2-r16

UCI-OnPUSCH-ListDCI-0-1-r16 ::=  SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..2)) OF UCI-OnPUSCH

UL-AccessConfigListDCI-0-1-r16 ::= SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..64)) OF INTEGER (0..63)

UL-AccessConfigListDCI-0-1-r17 ::= SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..3)) OF INTEGER (0..2)

UL-AccessConfigListDCI-0-2-r17 ::= SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..64)) OF INTEGER (0..63)

BetaOffsetsCrossPriSel-r17 ::= CHOICE {
    dynamic-r17         SEQUENCE (SIZE (4)) OF BetaOffsetsCrossPri-r17,
    semiStatic-r17          BetaOffsetsCrossPri-r17
}

BetaOffsetsCrossPriSelDCI-0-2-r17 ::= CHOICE {
    dynamicDCI-0-2-r17      CHOICE {
        oneBit-r17              SEQUENCE (SIZE (2)) OF BetaOffsetsCrossPri-r17,
        twoBits-r17             SEQUENCE (SIZE (4)) OF BetaOffsetsCrossPri-r17
    },
    semiStaticDCI-0-2-r17   BetaOffsetsCrossPri-r17
}

MPE-Resource-r17 ::=        SEQUENCE {
    mpe-ResourceId-r17          MPE-ResourceId-r17,
    cell-r17                    ServCellIndex                                                         OPTIONAL,    -- Need R
    additionalPCI-r17           AdditionalPCIIndex-r17                                                OPTIONAL,    -- Need R
    mpe-ReferenceSignal-r17     CHOICE {
        csi-RS-Resource-r17         NZP-CSI-RS-ResourceId,
        ssb-Resource-r17            SSB-Index
    }
}

MPE-ResourceId-r17 ::=      INTEGER (1..maxMPE-Resources-r17)

SDM-Scheme-r18   ::=        SEQUENCE {
    maxRankSDM-r18              INTEGER (1..2)                                                        OPTIONAL,    -- Need R
    maxRankSDM-DCI-0-2-r18      INTEGER (1..2)                                                        OPTIONAL     -- Need R
}


SFN-Scheme-r18   ::=        SEQUENCE {
    maxRankSFN-r18              INTEGER (1..2)                                                        OPTIONAL,    -- Need R
    maxRankSFN-DCI-0-2-r18      INTEGER (1..2)                                                        OPTIONAL     -- Need R
}


CodebookTypeUL-r18 ::=      CHOICE {
    codebook1-r18               ENUMERATED {ng1n4n1, ng1n2n2},
    codebook2-r18               ENUMERATED {ng2},
    codebook3-r18               ENUMERATED {ng4},
    codebook4-r18               ENUMERATED {ng8}
}

PUSCH-ConfigDCI-0-3-r18 ::=                   SEQUENCE {
    resourceAllocationDCI-0-3-r18                 ENUMERATED {resourceAllocationType0, resourceAllocationType1, dynamicSwitch}
                                                                                                                 OPTIONAL,   -- Need M
    rbg-SizeDCI-0-3-r18                           ENUMERATED {config2, config3}                                  OPTIONAL,   -- Need S
    resourceAllocationType1GranularityDCI-0-3-r18 ENUMERATED {n2,n4,n8,n16}                                      OPTIONAL,   -- Need S
    numberOfBitsForRV-DCI-0-3-r18                 INTEGER (0..2)                                                 OPTIONAL,   -- Need R
    harq-ProcessNumberSizeDCI-0-3-r18             INTEGER (0..5)                                                 OPTIONAL,   -- Need R
    uci-OnPUSCH-ListDCI-0-3-r18                   SetupRelease { UCI-OnPUSCH-ListDCI-0-1-r16  }                  OPTIONAL    -- Need M
}

-- TAG-PUSCH-CONFIG-STOP
-- ASN1STOP















–	PUSCH-ConfigCommon
The IE PUSCH-ConfigCommon is used to configure the cell specific PUSCH parameters.
PUSCH-ConfigCommon information element
-- ASN1START
-- TAG-PUSCH-CONFIGCOMMON-START

PUSCH-ConfigCommon ::=                  SEQUENCE {
    groupHoppingEnabledTransformPrecoding   ENUMERATED {enabled}                                                OPTIONAL,   -- Need R
    pusch-TimeDomainAllocationList          PUSCH-TimeDomainResourceAllocationList                              OPTIONAL,   -- Need R
    msg3-DeltaPreamble                      INTEGER (-1..6)                                                     OPTIONAL,   -- Need R
    p0-NominalWithGrant                     INTEGER (-202..24)                                                  OPTIONAL,   -- Need R
    ...
}

-- TAG-PUSCH-CONFIGCOMMON-STOP
-- ASN1STOP



–	PUSCH-PowerControl
The IE PUSCH-PowerControl is used to configure UE specific power control parameter for PUSCH.
PUSCH-PowerControl information element
-- ASN1START
-- TAG-PUSCH-POWERCONTROL-START

PUSCH-PowerControl ::=              SEQUENCE {
    tpc-Accumulation                    ENUMERATED { disabled }                                                 OPTIONAL, -- Need S
    msg3-Alpha                          Alpha                                                                   OPTIONAL, -- Need S
    p0-NominalWithoutGrant              INTEGER (-202..24)                                                      OPTIONAL, -- Need M
    p0-AlphaSets                        SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxNrofP0-PUSCH-AlphaSets)) OF P0-PUSCH-AlphaSet     OPTIONAL, -- Need M
    pathlossReferenceRSToAddModList     SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxNrofPUSCH-PathlossReferenceRSs)) OF PUSCH-PathlossReferenceRS
                                                                                                                OPTIONAL, -- Need N
    pathlossReferenceRSToReleaseList    SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxNrofPUSCH-PathlossReferenceRSs)) OF PUSCH-PathlossReferenceRS-Id
                                                                                                                OPTIONAL,  -- Need N
    twoPUSCH-PC-AdjustmentStates        ENUMERATED {twoStates}                                                  OPTIONAL, -- Need S
    deltaMCS                            ENUMERATED {enabled}                                                    OPTIONAL, -- Need S
    sri-PUSCH-MappingToAddModList       SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxNrofSRI-PUSCH-Mappings)) OF SRI-PUSCH-PowerControl
                                                                                                                OPTIONAL, -- Need N
    sri-PUSCH-MappingToReleaseList      SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxNrofSRI-PUSCH-Mappings)) OF SRI-PUSCH-PowerControlId
                                                                                                                OPTIONAL  -- Need N
}

P0-PUSCH-AlphaSet ::=               SEQUENCE {
    p0-PUSCH-AlphaSetId                 P0-PUSCH-AlphaSetId,
    p0                                  INTEGER (-16..15)                                                       OPTIONAL, -- Need S
    alpha                               Alpha                                                                   OPTIONAL  -- Need S
}

P0-PUSCH-AlphaSetId ::=             INTEGER (0..maxNrofP0-PUSCH-AlphaSets-1)

PUSCH-PathlossReferenceRS ::=       SEQUENCE {
    pusch-PathlossReferenceRS-Id        PUSCH-PathlossReferenceRS-Id,
    referenceSignal                     CHOICE {
        ssb-Index                           SSB-Index,
        csi-RS-Index                        NZP-CSI-RS-ResourceId
    }
}

PUSCH-PathlossReferenceRS-r16 ::=   SEQUENCE {
    pusch-PathlossReferenceRS-Id-r16    PUSCH-PathlossReferenceRS-Id-v1610,
    referenceSignal-r16                 CHOICE {
        ssb-Index-r16                       SSB-Index,
        csi-RS-Index-r16                    NZP-CSI-RS-ResourceId
    }
}

DummyPathlossReferenceRS-v1710 ::= SEQUENCE {
    pusch-PathlossReferenceRS-Id-r17    PUSCH-PathlossReferenceRS-Id-r17,
    additionalPCI-r17                   AdditionalPCIIndex-r17                                         OPTIONAL  -- Need R
}

PUSCH-PathlossReferenceRS-Id ::=    INTEGER (0..maxNrofPUSCH-PathlossReferenceRSs-1)

PUSCH-PathlossReferenceRS-Id-v1610 ::= INTEGER (maxNrofPUSCH-PathlossReferenceRSs..maxNrofPUSCH-PathlossReferenceRSs-1-r16)

PUSCH-PathlossReferenceRS-Id-r17 ::= INTEGER (0..maxNrofPUSCH-PathlossReferenceRSs-1-r16)

SRI-PUSCH-PowerControl ::=          SEQUENCE {
    sri-PUSCH-PowerControlId            SRI-PUSCH-PowerControlId,
    sri-PUSCH-PathlossReferenceRS-Id    PUSCH-PathlossReferenceRS-Id,
    sri-P0-PUSCH-AlphaSetId             P0-PUSCH-AlphaSetId,
    sri-PUSCH-ClosedLoopIndex           ENUMERATED { i0, i1 }
}

SRI-PUSCH-PowerControlId ::=        INTEGER (0..maxNrofSRI-PUSCH-Mappings-1)

PUSCH-PowerControl-v1610 ::=        SEQUENCE {
    pathlossReferenceRSToAddModListSizeExt-v1610   SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxNrofPUSCH-PathlossReferenceRSsDiff-r16)) OF PUSCH-PathlossReferenceRS-r16
                                                                                                                OPTIONAL, -- Need N
    pathlossReferenceRSToReleaseListSizeExt-v1610  SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxNrofPUSCH-PathlossReferenceRSsDiff-r16)) OF PUSCH-PathlossReferenceRS-Id-v1610
                                                                                                                OPTIONAL, -- Need N
    p0-PUSCH-SetList-r16                SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxNrofSRI-PUSCH-Mappings)) OF P0-PUSCH-Set-r16      OPTIONAL, -- Need R
    olpc-ParameterSet                   SEQUENCE {
        olpc-ParameterSetDCI-0-1-r16        INTEGER (1..2)                                                      OPTIONAL, -- Need R
        olpc-ParameterSetDCI-0-2-r16        INTEGER (1..2)                                                      OPTIONAL  -- Need R
    }                                                                                                           OPTIONAL, -- Need M
    ...,
    [[
    sri-PUSCH-MappingToAddModList2-r17  SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxNrofSRI-PUSCH-Mappings)) OF SRI-PUSCH-PowerControl
                                                                                                                OPTIONAL, -- Need N
    sri-PUSCH-MappingToReleaseList2-r17 SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxNrofSRI-PUSCH-Mappings)) OF SRI-PUSCH-PowerControlId OPTIONAL, -- Need N
    p0-PUSCH-SetList2-r17               SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxNrofSRI-PUSCH-Mappings)) OF P0-PUSCH-Set-r16      OPTIONAL, -- Need R
    dummy SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxNrofPUSCH-PathlossReferenceRSs-r16)) OF DummyPathlossReferenceRS-v1710          OPTIONAL  -- Need N
    ]]
}

P0-PUSCH-Set-r16 ::=                SEQUENCE {
    p0-PUSCH-SetId-r16                  P0-PUSCH-SetId-r16,
    p0-List-r16                         SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxNrofP0-PUSCH-Set-r16)) OF P0-PUSCH-r16            OPTIONAL, -- Need R
    ...
}

P0-PUSCH-SetId-r16 ::=              INTEGER (0..maxNrofSRI-PUSCH-Mappings-1)

P0-PUSCH-r16 ::=                    INTEGER (-16..15)

-- TAG-PUSCH-POWERCONTROL-STOP
-- ASN1STOP









–	PUSCH-ServingCellConfig
The IE PUSCH-ServingCellConfig is used to configure UE specific PUSCH parameters that are common across the UE's BWPs of one serving cell.
PUSCH-ServingCellConfig information element
-- ASN1START
-- TAG-PUSCH-SERVINGCELLCONFIG-START

PUSCH-ServingCellConfig ::=             SEQUENCE {
    codeBlockGroupTransmission              SetupRelease { PUSCH-CodeBlockGroupTransmission }       OPTIONAL,   -- Need M
    rateMatching                            ENUMERATED {limitedBufferRM}                            OPTIONAL,   -- Need S
    xOverhead                               ENUMERATED {xoh6, xoh12, xoh18}                         OPTIONAL,   -- Need S
    ...,
    [[
    maxMIMO-Layers                          INTEGER (1..4)                                          OPTIONAL,   -- Need M
    processingType2Enabled                  BOOLEAN                                                 OPTIONAL    -- Need M
    ]],
    [[
    maxMIMO-LayersDCI-0-2-r16               SetupRelease { MaxMIMO-LayersDCI-0-2-r16}               OPTIONAL    -- Need M
    ]],
    [[
    nrofHARQ-ProcessesForPUSCH-r17          ENUMERATED {n32}                                        OPTIONAL,   -- Need R
    uplinkHARQ-mode-r17                     SetupRelease { UplinkHARQ-mode-r17}                     OPTIONAL    -- Need M
    ]],
    [[
    maxMIMO-Layers-v1810                    INTEGER (5..8)                                          OPTIONAL,   -- Need R
    maxMIMO-LayersforSDM-r18                INTEGER (1..2)                                          OPTIONAL,   -- Need R
    maxMIMO-LayersforSDM-DCI-0-2-r18        INTEGER (1..2)                                          OPTIONAL,   -- Need R
    maxMIMO-LayersforSFN-r18                INTEGER (1..2)                                          OPTIONAL,   -- Need R
    maxMIMO-LayersforSFN-DCI-0-2-r18        INTEGER (1..2)                                          OPTIONAL    -- Need R
    ]]
}

PUSCH-CodeBlockGroupTransmission ::=    SEQUENCE {
    maxCodeBlockGroupsPerTransportBlock     ENUMERATED {n2, n4, n6, n8},
    ...
}

MaxMIMO-LayersDCI-0-2-r16 ::=           INTEGER (1..4)

UplinkHARQ-mode-r17 ::=                 BIT STRING (SIZE (32))

-- TAG-PUSCH-SERVINGCELLCONFIG-STOP
-- ASN1STOP





–	PUSCH-TimeDomainResourceAllocationList
The IE PUSCH-TimeDomainResourceAllocation is used to configure a time domain relation between PDCCH and PUSCH. PUSCH-TimeDomainResourceAllocationList contains one or more of such PUSCH-TimeDomainResourceAllocations. The network indicates in the UL grant which of the configured time domain allocations the UE shall apply for that UL grant. The UE determines the bit width of the DCI field based on the number of entries in the PUSCH-TimeDomainResourceAllocationList. Value 0 in the DCI field refers to the first element in this list, value 1 in the DCI field refers to the second element in this list, and so on.
PUSCH-TimeDomainResourceAllocation information element
-- ASN1START
-- TAG-PUSCH-TIMEDOMAINRESOURCEALLOCATIONLIST-START

PUSCH-TimeDomainResourceAllocationList ::=  SEQUENCE (SIZE(1..maxNrofUL-Allocations)) OF PUSCH-TimeDomainResourceAllocation

PUSCH-TimeDomainResourceAllocation ::=  SEQUENCE {
    k2                                      INTEGER(0..32)                                  OPTIONAL,   -- Need S
    mappingType                             ENUMERATED {typeA, typeB},
    startSymbolAndLength                    INTEGER (0..127)
}

PUSCH-TimeDomainResourceAllocationList-r16 ::=  SEQUENCE (SIZE(1..maxNrofUL-Allocations-r16)) OF PUSCH-TimeDomainResourceAllocation-r16

PUSCH-TimeDomainResourceAllocation-r16 ::=  SEQUENCE {
    k2-r16                                     INTEGER(0..32)          OPTIONAL,   -- Need S
    puschAllocationList-r16                    SEQUENCE (SIZE(1..maxNrofMultiplePUSCHs-r16)) OF PUSCH-Allocation-r16,
...
}

PUSCH-Allocation-r16 ::=  SEQUENCE {
    mappingType-r16                           ENUMERATED {typeA, typeB}                     OPTIONAL,   -- Cond NotFormat01-02-Or-TypeA
    startSymbolAndLength-r16                  INTEGER (0..127)                              OPTIONAL,   -- Cond NotFormat01-02-Or-TypeA
    startSymbol-r16                           INTEGER (0..13)                               OPTIONAL,   -- Cond RepTypeB
    length-r16                                INTEGER (1..14)                               OPTIONAL,   -- Cond RepTypeB
    numberOfRepetitions-r16                   ENUMERATED {n1, n2, n3, n4, n7, n8, n12, n16} OPTIONAL,   -- Cond Format01-02
    ...,
    [[
    numberOfRepetitionsExt-r17                ENUMERATED {n1, n2, n3, n4, n7, n8, n12, n16, n20, n24, n28, n32, spare4, spare3, spare2,
                                                          spare1}                           OPTIONAL,   -- Cond Format01-02-For-TypeA
    numberOfSlotsTBoMS-r17                   ENUMERATED {n1, n2, n4, n8, spare4, spare3, spare2, spare1}   OPTIONAL,   -- Need R
    extendedK2-r17                            INTEGER (0..128)                              OPTIONAL    -- Cond MultiPUSCH
    ]]
}

-- TAG-PUSCH-TIMEDOMAINRESOURCEALLOCATIONLIST-STOP
-- ASN1STOP





–	PUSCH-TPC-CommandConfig
The IE PUSCH-TPC-CommandConfig is used to configure the UE for extracting TPC commands for PUSCH from a group-TPC messages on DCI.
PUSCH-TPC-CommandConfig information element
-- ASN1START
-- TAG-PUSCH-TPC-COMMANDCONFIG-START

PUSCH-TPC-CommandConfig ::=         SEQUENCE {
    tpc-Index                           INTEGER (1..15)                                                 OPTIONAL,   -- Cond SUL
    tpc-IndexSUL                        INTEGER (1..15)                                                 OPTIONAL,   -- Cond SUL-Only
    targetCell                          ServCellIndex                                                   OPTIONAL,   -- Need S
    ...
}

-- TAG-PUSCH-TPC-COMMANDCONFIG-STOP
-- ASN1STOP





–	QFI
The IE QFI is used to indicate the QoS Flow Identifier.
QFI information element
-- ASN1START
-- TAG-QFI-START

QFI ::=                             INTEGER (0..maxQFI)

-- TAG-QFI-STOP
-- ASN1STOP

–	Q-OffsetRange
The IE Q-OffsetRange is used to indicate a cell, beam or measurement object specific offset to be applied when evaluating candidates for cell re-selection or when evaluating triggering conditions for measurement reporting. The value is in dB. Value dB-24 corresponds to -24 dB, dB-22 corresponds to -22 dB and so on.
Q-OffsetRange information element
-- ASN1START
-- TAG-Q-OFFSETRANGE-START

Q-OffsetRange ::=                   ENUMERATED {
                                                dB-24, dB-22, dB-20, dB-18, dB-16, dB-14,
                                                dB-12, dB-10, dB-8, dB-6, dB-5, dB-4, dB-3,
                                                dB-2, dB-1, dB0, dB1, dB2, dB3, dB4, dB5,
                                                dB6, dB8, dB10, dB12, dB14, dB16, dB18,
                                                dB20, dB22, dB24}

-- TAG-Q-OFFSETRANGE-STOP
-- ASN1STOP

–	Q-QualMin
The IE Q-QualMin is used to indicate for cell selection/ re-selection the required minimum received RSRQ level in the (NR) cell. Corresponds to parameter Qqualmin in TS 38.304 [20]. Actual value Qqualmin = field value [dB].
Q-QualMin information element
-- ASN1START
-- TAG-Q-QUALMIN-START

Q-QualMin ::=                       INTEGER (-43..-12)

-- TAG-Q-QUALMIN-STOP
-- ASN1STOP

–	Q-RxLevMin
The IE Q-RxLevMin is used to indicate for cell selection/ re-selection the required minimum received RSRP level in the (NR) cell. Corresponds to parameter Qrxlevmin in TS 38.304 [20]. Actual value Qrxlevmin = field value * 2 [dBm].
Q-RxLevMin information element
-- ASN1START
-- TAG-Q-RXLEVMIN-START

Q-RxLevMin ::=                      INTEGER (-70..-22)

-- TAG-Q-RXLEVMIN-STOP
-- ASN1STOP

–	QuantityConfig
The IE QuantityConfig specifies the measurement quantities and layer 3 filtering coefficients for NR and inter-RAT measurements.
QuantityConfig information element
-- ASN1START
-- TAG-QUANTITYCONFIG-START


QuantityConfig ::=                  SEQUENCE {
    quantityConfigNR-List               SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxNrofQuantityConfig)) OF QuantityConfigNR          OPTIONAL,   -- Need M
    ...,
    [[
    quantityConfigEUTRA                 FilterConfig                                                            OPTIONAL    -- Need M
    ]],
    [[
    quantityConfigUTRA-FDD-r16          QuantityConfigUTRA-FDD-r16                                              OPTIONAL,   -- Need M
    quantityConfigCLI-r16               FilterConfigCLI-r16                                                     OPTIONAL    -- Need M
    ]]
}

QuantityConfigNR::=                 SEQUENCE {
    quantityConfigCell                  QuantityConfigRS,
    quantityConfigRS-Index              QuantityConfigRS                                                        OPTIONAL    -- Need M
}

QuantityConfigRS ::=                SEQUENCE {
    ssb-FilterConfig                    FilterConfig,
    csi-RS-FilterConfig                 FilterConfig
}

FilterConfig ::=                    SEQUENCE {
    filterCoefficientRSRP               FilterCoefficient                                       DEFAULT fc4,
    filterCoefficientRSRQ               FilterCoefficient                                       DEFAULT fc4,
    filterCoefficientRS-SINR            FilterCoefficient                                       DEFAULT fc4
}

FilterConfigCLI-r16 ::=             SEQUENCE {
    filterCoefficientSRS-RSRP-r16       FilterCoefficient                                       DEFAULT fc4,
    filterCoefficientCLI-RSSI-r16       FilterCoefficient                                       DEFAULT fc4
}

QuantityConfigUTRA-FDD-r16 ::=      SEQUENCE {
    filterCoefficientRSCP-r16           FilterCoefficient                                       DEFAULT fc4,
    filterCoefficientEcNO-r16           FilterCoefficient                                       DEFAULT fc4
}

-- TAG-QUANTITYCONFIG-STOP
-- ASN1STOP







–	RACH-ConfigCommon
The IE RACH-ConfigCommon is used to specify the cell specific random-access parameters.
RACH-ConfigCommon information element
-- ASN1START
-- TAG-RACH-CONFIGCOMMON-START

RACH-ConfigCommon ::=               SEQUENCE {
    rach-ConfigGeneric                  RACH-ConfigGeneric,
    totalNumberOfRA-Preambles           INTEGER (1..63)                                                     OPTIONAL,   -- Need S
    ssb-perRACH-OccasionAndCB-PreamblesPerSSB   CHOICE {
        oneEighth                                   ENUMERATED {n4,n8,n12,n16,n20,n24,n28,n32,n36,n40,n44,n48,n52,n56,n60,n64},
        oneFourth                                   ENUMERATED {n4,n8,n12,n16,n20,n24,n28,n32,n36,n40,n44,n48,n52,n56,n60,n64},
        oneHalf                                     ENUMERATED {n4,n8,n12,n16,n20,n24,n28,n32,n36,n40,n44,n48,n52,n56,n60,n64},
        one                                         ENUMERATED {n4,n8,n12,n16,n20,n24,n28,n32,n36,n40,n44,n48,n52,n56,n60,n64},
        two                                         ENUMERATED {n4,n8,n12,n16,n20,n24,n28,n32},
        four                                        INTEGER (1..16),
        eight                                       INTEGER (1..8),
        sixteen                                     INTEGER (1..4)
    }                                                                                                       OPTIONAL,   -- Need M

    groupBconfigured                    SEQUENCE {
        ra-Msg3SizeGroupA                   ENUMERATED {b56, b144, b208, b256, b282, b480, b640,
                                                        b800, b1000, b72, spare6, spare5,spare4, spare3, spare2, spare1},
        messagePowerOffsetGroupB            ENUMERATED { minusinfinity, dB0, dB5, dB8, dB10, dB12, dB15, dB18},
        numberOfRA-PreamblesGroupA          INTEGER (1..64)
    }                                                                                                       OPTIONAL,   -- Need R
    ra-ContentionResolutionTimer            ENUMERATED { sf8, sf16, sf24, sf32, sf40, sf48, sf56, sf64},
    rsrp-ThresholdSSB                       RSRP-Range                                                      OPTIONAL,   -- Need R
    rsrp-ThresholdSSB-SUL                   RSRP-Range                                                      OPTIONAL,   -- Cond SUL
    prach-RootSequenceIndex                 CHOICE {
        l839                                    INTEGER (0..837),
        l139                                    INTEGER (0..137)
    },
    msg1-SubcarrierSpacing                  SubcarrierSpacing                                               OPTIONAL,   -- Cond L139
    restrictedSetConfig                     ENUMERATED {unrestrictedSet, restrictedSetTypeA, restrictedSetTypeB},
    msg3-transformPrecoder                  ENUMERATED {enabled}                                            OPTIONAL,   -- Need R
    ...,
    [[
    ra-PrioritizationForAccessIdentity-r16  SEQUENCE {
        ra-Prioritization-r16                   RA-Prioritization,
        ra-PrioritizationForAI-r16              BIT STRING (SIZE (2))
    }                                                                                                       OPTIONAL,   -- Cond InitialBWP-Only
    prach-RootSequenceIndex-r16             CHOICE {
        l571                                    INTEGER (0..569),
        l1151                                   INTEGER (0..1149)
    }   OPTIONAL   -- Need R
    ]],
    [[
    ra-PrioritizationForSlicing-r17         RA-PrioritizationForSlicing-r17                          OPTIONAL,   -- Cond InitialBWP-Only
    featureCombinationPreamblesList-r17     SEQUENCE (SIZE(1..maxFeatureCombPreamblesPerRACHResource-r17)) OF FeatureCombinationPreambles-r17 OPTIONAL -- Cond AdditionalRACH
    ]]
}

-- TAG-RACH-CONFIGCOMMON-STOP
-- ASN1STOP





–	RACH-ConfigCommonTwoStepRA
The IE RACH-ConfigCommonTwoStepRA is used to specify cell specific 2-step random-access type parameters.
RACH-ConfigCommonTwoStepRA information element
-- ASN1START
-- TAG-RACH-CONFIGCOMMONTWOSTEPRA-START

RACH-ConfigCommonTwoStepRA-r16 ::=                   SEQUENCE {
    rach-ConfigGenericTwoStepRA-r16                      RACH-ConfigGenericTwoStepRA-r16,
    msgA-TotalNumberOfRA-Preambles-r16                   INTEGER (1..63)                                    OPTIONAL, -- Need S
    msgA-SSB-PerRACH-OccasionAndCB-PreamblesPerSSB-r16   CHOICE {
        oneEighth                                            ENUMERATED {n4,n8,n12,n16,n20,n24,n28,n32,n36,n40,n44,n48,n52,n56,n60,n64},
        oneFourth                                            ENUMERATED {n4,n8,n12,n16,n20,n24,n28,n32,n36,n40,n44,n48,n52,n56,n60,n64},
        oneHalf                                              ENUMERATED {n4,n8,n12,n16,n20,n24,n28,n32,n36,n40,n44,n48,n52,n56,n60,n64},
        one                                                  ENUMERATED {n4,n8,n12,n16,n20,n24,n28,n32,n36,n40,n44,n48,n52,n56,n60,n64},
        two                                                  ENUMERATED {n4,n8,n12,n16,n20,n24,n28,n32},
        four                                                 INTEGER (1..16),
        eight                                                INTEGER (1..8),
        sixteen                                              INTEGER (1..4)
    }                                                                                                                   OPTIONAL, -- Cond 2StepOnly
    msgA-CB-PreamblesPerSSB-PerSharedRO-r16              INTEGER (1..60)                                                OPTIONAL, -- Cond SharedRO
    msgA-SSB-SharedRO-MaskIndex-r16                      INTEGER (1..15)                                                OPTIONAL, -- Need S
    groupB-ConfiguredTwoStepRA-r16                       GroupB-ConfiguredTwoStepRA-r16                                 OPTIONAL, -- Need S
    msgA-PRACH-RootSequenceIndex-r16                     CHOICE {
        l839                                                 INTEGER (0..837),
        l139                                                 INTEGER (0..137),
        l571                                                 INTEGER (0..569),
        l1151                                                INTEGER (0..1149)
    }                                                                                                                   OPTIONAL, -- Cond 2StepOnly
    msgA-TransMax-r16                                    ENUMERATED {n1, n2, n4, n6, n8, n10, n20, n50, n100, n200}     OPTIONAL, -- Need R
    msgA-RSRP-Threshold-r16                              RSRP-Range                                                     OPTIONAL, -- Cond 2Step4Step
    msgA-RSRP-ThresholdSSB-r16                           RSRP-Range                                                     OPTIONAL, -- Need R
    msgA-SubcarrierSpacing-r16                           SubcarrierSpacing                                              OPTIONAL, -- Cond 2StepOnlyL139
    msgA-RestrictedSetConfig-r16                         ENUMERATED {unrestrictedSet, restrictedSetTypeA,
                                                                     restrictedSetTypeB}                                OPTIONAL, -- Cond 2StepOnly
    ra-PrioritizationForAccessIdentityTwoStep-r16        SEQUENCE {
        ra-Prioritization-r16                                RA-Prioritization,
        ra-PrioritizationForAI-r16                           BIT STRING (SIZE (2))
    }                                                                                                                   OPTIONAL, -- Cond InitialBWP-Only
    ra-ContentionResolutionTimer-r16                     ENUMERATED {sf8, sf16, sf24, sf32, sf40, sf48, sf56, sf64}     OPTIONAL, -- Cond 2StepOnly
    ...,
    [[
    ra-PrioritizationForSlicingTwoStep-r17               RA-PrioritizationForSlicing-r17              OPTIONAL, -- Cond InitialBWP-Only
    featureCombinationPreamblesList-r17 SEQUENCE (SIZE(1..maxFeatureCombPreamblesPerRACHResource-r17)) OF FeatureCombinationPreambles-r17 OPTIONAL  -- Cond AdditionalRACH
    ]]
}

GroupB-ConfiguredTwoStepRA-r16 ::=                       SEQUENCE {
    ra-MsgA-SizeGroupA-r16                               ENUMERATED {b56, b144, b208, b256, b282, b480, b640, b800,
                                                                     b1000, b72, spare6, spare5, spare4, spare3, spare2, spare1},
    messagePowerOffsetGroupB-r16                         ENUMERATED {minusinfinity, dB0, dB5, dB8, dB10, dB12, dB15, dB18},
    numberOfRA-PreamblesGroupA-r16                       INTEGER (1..64)
}

-- TAG-RACH-CONFIGCOMMONTWOSTEPRA-STOP
-- ASN1STOP







–	RACH-ConfigDedicated
The IE RACH-ConfigDedicated is used to specify the dedicated random access parameters.
RACH-ConfigDedicated information element
-- ASN1START
-- TAG-RACH-CONFIGDEDICATED-START


RACH-ConfigDedicated ::=        SEQUENCE {
    cfra                            CFRA                                                                    OPTIONAL, -- Need S
    ra-Prioritization               RA-Prioritization                                                       OPTIONAL, -- Need N
    ...,
    [[
    ra-PrioritizationTwoStep-r16    RA-Prioritization                                                       OPTIONAL, -- Need N
    cfra-TwoStep-r16                CFRA-TwoStep-r16                                                        OPTIONAL  -- Need S
    ]]
}

CFRA ::=                    SEQUENCE {
    occasions                       SEQUENCE {
        rach-ConfigGeneric              RACH-ConfigGeneric,
        ssb-perRACH-Occasion            ENUMERATED {oneEighth, oneFourth, oneHalf, one, two, four, eight, sixteen}
                                                                                                            OPTIONAL  -- Cond Mandatory
    }                                                                                                       OPTIONAL, -- Need S
    resources                       CHOICE {
        ssb                             SEQUENCE {
            ssb-ResourceList                SEQUENCE (SIZE(1..maxRA-SSB-Resources)) OF CFRA-SSB-Resource,
            ra-ssb-OccasionMaskIndex        INTEGER (0..15)
        },
        csirs                           SEQUENCE {
            csirs-ResourceList              SEQUENCE (SIZE(1..maxRA-CSIRS-Resources)) OF CFRA-CSIRS-Resource,
            rsrp-ThresholdCSI-RS            RSRP-Range
        }
    },
    ...,
    [[
    totalNumberOfRA-Preambles INTEGER (1..63)                                                             OPTIONAL -- Cond Occasions
    ]],
    [[
    msg1-RepetitionNum-r18          ENUMERATED {n2, n4, n8, spare1}                                               OPTIONAL -- Cond 4StepCFRArep
    ]]
}

CFRA-TwoStep-r16 ::=                    SEQUENCE {
    occasionsTwoStepRA-r16                  SEQUENCE {
        rach-ConfigGenericTwoStepRA-r16         RACH-ConfigGenericTwoStepRA-r16,
        ssb-PerRACH-OccasionTwoStepRA-r16       ENUMERATED {oneEighth, oneFourth, oneHalf, one,
                                                            two, four, eight, sixteen}
    }                                                                                                     OPTIONAL, -- Need S
    msgA-CFRA-PUSCH-r16                     MsgA-PUSCH-Resource-r16,
    msgA-TransMax-r16                       ENUMERATED {n1, n2, n4, n6, n8, n10, n20, n50, n100, n200}    OPTIONAL, -- Need S
    resourcesTwoStep-r16                    SEQUENCE {
        ssb-ResourceList                        SEQUENCE (SIZE(1..maxRA-SSB-Resources)) OF CFRA-SSB-Resource,
        ra-ssb-OccasionMaskIndex                INTEGER (0..15)
    },
    ...
}

CFRA-SSB-Resource ::=           SEQUENCE {
    ssb                             SSB-Index,
    ra-PreambleIndex                INTEGER (0..63),
    ...,
    [[
    msgA-PUSCH-Resource-Index-r16   INTEGER (0..3071)     OPTIONAL  -- Cond 2StepCFRA
    ]]

}

CFRA-CSIRS-Resource ::=         SEQUENCE {
    csi-RS                          CSI-RS-Index,
    ra-OccasionList                 SEQUENCE (SIZE(1..maxRA-OccasionsPerCSIRS)) OF INTEGER (0..maxRA-Occasions-1),
    ra-PreambleIndex                INTEGER (0..63),
    ...
}

-- TAG-RACH-CONFIGDEDICATED-STOP
-- ASN1STOP













–	RACH-ConfigGeneric
The IE RACH-ConfigGeneric is used to specify the random-access parameters both for regular random access as well as for beam failure recovery.
RACH-ConfigGeneric information element
-- ASN1START
-- TAG-RACH-CONFIGGENERIC-START

RACH-ConfigGeneric ::=              SEQUENCE {
    prach-ConfigurationIndex            INTEGER (0..255),
    msg1-FDM                            ENUMERATED {one, two, four, eight},
    msg1-FrequencyStart                 INTEGER (0..maxNrofPhysicalResourceBlocks-1),
    zeroCorrelationZoneConfig           INTEGER(0..15),
    preambleReceivedTargetPower         INTEGER (-202..-60),
    preambleTransMax                    ENUMERATED {n3, n4, n5, n6, n7, n8, n10, n20, n50, n100, n200},
    powerRampingStep                    ENUMERATED {dB0, dB2, dB4, dB6},
    ra-ResponseWindow                   ENUMERATED {sl1, sl2, sl4, sl8, sl10, sl20, sl40, sl80},
    ...,
    [[
    prach-ConfigurationPeriodScaling-IAB-r16    ENUMERATED {scf1,scf2,scf4,scf8,scf16,scf32,scf64}              OPTIONAL,   -- Need R
    prach-ConfigurationFrameOffset-IAB-r16      INTEGER (0..63)                                                 OPTIONAL,   -- Need R
    prach-ConfigurationSOffset-IAB-r16          INTEGER (0..39)                                                 OPTIONAL,   -- Need R
    ra-ResponseWindow-v1610                     ENUMERATED { sl60, sl160}                                       OPTIONAL,   -- Need R
    prach-ConfigurationIndex-v1610              INTEGER (256..262)                                              OPTIONAL    -- Need R
    ]],
    [[
    ra-ResponseWindow-v1700                     ENUMERATED {sl240, sl320, sl640, sl960, sl1280, sl1920, sl2560} OPTIONAL    -- Need R
    ]]
}

-- TAG-RACH-CONFIGGENERIC-STOP
-- ASN1STOP



–	RACH-ConfigGenericTwoStepRA
The IE RACH-ConfigGenericTwoStepRA is used to specify the 2-step random access type parameters.
RACH-ConfigGenericTwoStepRA information element
-- ASN1START
-- TAG-RACH-CONFIGGENERICTWOSTEPRA-START

RACH-ConfigGenericTwoStepRA-r16 ::=     SEQUENCE {
    msgA-PRACH-ConfigurationIndex-r16       INTEGER (0..262)                                                OPTIONAL, -- Cond 2StepOnly
    msgA-RO-FDM-r16                         ENUMERATED {one, two, four, eight}                              OPTIONAL, -- Cond 2StepOnly
    msgA-RO-FrequencyStart-r16              INTEGER (0..maxNrofPhysicalResourceBlocks-1)                    OPTIONAL, -- Cond 2StepOnly
    msgA-ZeroCorrelationZoneConfig-r16      INTEGER (0..15)                                                 OPTIONAL, -- Cond 2StepOnly
    msgA-PreamblePowerRampingStep-r16       ENUMERATED {dB0, dB2, dB4, dB6}                                 OPTIONAL, -- Cond 2StepOnlyNoCFRA
    msgA-PreambleReceivedTargetPower-r16    INTEGER (-202..-60)                                             OPTIONAL, -- Cond 2StepOnlyNoCFRA
    msgB-ResponseWindow-r16                 ENUMERATED {sl1, sl2, sl4, sl8, sl10, sl20, sl40, sl80, sl160, sl320}
                                                                                                            OPTIONAL, -- Cond NoCFRA
    preambleTransMax-r16                    ENUMERATED {n3, n4, n5, n6, n7, n8, n10, n20, n50, n100, n200}  OPTIONAL, -- Cond 2StepOnlyNoCFRA
    ...,
    [[
    msgB-ResponseWindow-v1700               ENUMERATED {sl240, sl640, sl960, sl1280, sl1920, sl2560}        OPTIONAL  -- Cond NoCFRA2
    ]]
}

-- TAG-RACH-CONFIGGENERICTWOSTEPRA-STOP
-- ASN1STOP





–	RACH-ConfigTwoTA
The IE RACH-ConfigTwoTA is used to specify random access parameters for each additional PCI configured for the serving cell.
RACH-ConfigTwoTA information element
-- ASN1START
-- TAG-RACH-CONFIGTWOTA-START

RACH-ConfigTwoTA-r18 ::=     SEQUENCE {
    additionalPCI-andRACH-Index-r18  AdditionalPCIIndex-r17,
    rach-ConfigGeneric-r18       RACH-ConfigGeneric,
    ssb-perRACH-Occasion-r18     ENUMERATED {oneEighth, oneFourth, oneHalf, one, two, four, eight, sixteen}   OPTIONAL,   -- Need M
    prach-RootSequenceIndex-r18  CHOICE {
        l839                         INTEGER (0..837),
        l139                         INTEGER (0..137),
        l571                         INTEGER (0..569),
        l1151                        INTEGER (0..1149)
    },
    msg1-SubcarrierSpacing-r18   SubcarrierSpacing                                                            OPTIONAL,   -- Cond L139
    ...,
    [[
    twoTA-restrictedSetConfig-r18    ENUMERATED {unrestrictedSet, restrictedSetTypeA, restrictedSetTypeB}     OPTIONAL  -- Need R
    ]]
}

-- TAG-RACH-CONFIGTWOTA-STOP
-- ASN1STOP





–	RA-Prioritization
The IE RA-Prioritization is used to configure prioritized random access.
RA-Prioritization information element
-- ASN1START
-- TAG-RA-PRIORITIZATION-START

RA-Prioritization ::=           SEQUENCE {
    powerRampingStepHighPriority    ENUMERATED {dB0, dB2, dB4, dB6},
    scalingFactorBI                 ENUMERATED {zero, dot25, dot5, dot75}                               OPTIONAL,   -- Need R
    ...
}

-- TAG-RA-PRIORITIZATION-STOP
-- ASN1STOP



–	RA-PrioritizationForSlicing
The IE RA-PrioritizationForSlicing is used to configure prioritized random access for slicing.
RA-PrioritizationForSlicing information element
-- ASN1START
-- TAG-RA-PRIORITIZATIONFORSLICING-START

RA-PrioritizationForSlicing-r17 ::=    SEQUENCE {
    ra-PrioritizationSliceInfoList-r17     RA-PrioritizationSliceInfoList-r17,
    ...
}

RA-PrioritizationSliceInfoList-r17 ::= SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxSliceInfo-r17)) OF RA-PrioritizationSliceInfo-r17

RA-PrioritizationSliceInfo-r17 ::=     SEQUENCE {
    nsag-ID-List-r17                       SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxSliceInfo-r17)) OF NSAG-ID-r17,
    ra-Prioritization-r17                  RA-Prioritization,
    ...
}

-- TAG-RA-PRIORITIZATIONFORSLICING-STOP
-- ASN1STOP

–	RadioBearerConfig
The IE RadioBearerConfig is used to add, modify and release signalling, multicast MRBs and/or data radio bearers. Specifically, this IE carries the parameters for PDCP and, if applicable, SDAP entities for the radio bearers.
RadioBearerConfig information element
-- ASN1START
-- TAG-RADIOBEARERCONFIG-START

RadioBearerConfig ::=                   SEQUENCE {
    srb-ToAddModList                        SRB-ToAddModList                                        OPTIONAL,   -- Cond HO-Conn
    srb3-ToRelease                          ENUMERATED{true}                                        OPTIONAL,   -- Need N
    drb-ToAddModList                        DRB-ToAddModList                                        OPTIONAL,   -- Cond HO-toNR
    drb-ToReleaseList                       DRB-ToReleaseList                                       OPTIONAL,   -- Need N
    securityConfig                          SecurityConfig                                          OPTIONAL,   -- Need M
    ...,
    [[
    mrb-ToAddModList-r17                    MRB-ToAddModList-r17                                    OPTIONAL,   -- Need N
    mrb-ToReleaseList-r17                   MRB-ToReleaseList-r17                                   OPTIONAL,   -- Need N
    srb4-ToAddMod-r17                       SRB-ToAddMod                                            OPTIONAL,   -- Need N
    srb4-ToRelease-r17                      ENUMERATED{true}                                        OPTIONAL    -- Need N
    ]],
    [[
    srb5-ToAddMod-r18                       SRB-ToAddMod                                            OPTIONAL,   -- Need N
    srb5-ToRelease-r18                      ENUMERATED{true}                                        OPTIONAL    -- Need N
    ]]
}

SRB-ToAddModList ::=                    SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..2)) OF SRB-ToAddMod

SRB-ToAddMod ::=                        SEQUENCE {
    srb-Identity                            SRB-Identity,
    reestablishPDCP                         ENUMERATED{true}                                        OPTIONAL,   -- Need N
    discardOnPDCP                           ENUMERATED{true}                                        OPTIONAL,   -- Need N
    pdcp-Config                             PDCP-Config                                             OPTIONAL,   -- Cond PDCP
    ...,
    [[
    srb-Identity-v1700                      SRB-Identity-v1700                                      OPTIONAL    -- Need M
    ]],
    [[
    srb-Identity-v1800                      SRB-Identity-v1800                                      OPTIONAL,   -- Need M
    n3c-BearerAssociated-r18                ENUMERATED{true}                                        OPTIONAL    -- Cond N3C MP
    ]]
}

DRB-ToAddModList ::=                    SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxDRB)) OF DRB-ToAddMod

DRB-ToAddMod ::=                        SEQUENCE {
    cnAssociation                           CHOICE {
        eps-BearerIdentity                      INTEGER (0..15),
        sdap-Config                             SDAP-Config
    }                                                                                               OPTIONAL,   -- Cond DRBSetup
    drb-Identity                            DRB-Identity,
    reestablishPDCP                         ENUMERATED{true}                                        OPTIONAL,   -- Need N
    recoverPDCP                             ENUMERATED{true}                                        OPTIONAL,   -- Need N
    pdcp-Config                             PDCP-Config                                             OPTIONAL,   -- Cond PDCP
    ...,
    [[
    daps-Config-r16                         ENUMERATED{true}                                        OPTIONAL    -- Cond DAPS
    ]],
    [[
    n3c-BearerAssociated-r18                ENUMERATED{true}                                        OPTIONAL    -- Cond N3C MP
    ]]
}
DRB-ToReleaseList ::=                   SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxDRB)) OF DRB-Identity

SecurityConfig ::=                      SEQUENCE {
    securityAlgorithmConfig                 SecurityAlgorithmConfig                                 OPTIONAL,   -- Cond RBTermChange1
    keyToUse                                ENUMERATED{master, secondary}                           OPTIONAL,   -- Cond RBTermChange
    ...
}

MRB-ToAddModList-r17 ::=                SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxMRB-r17)) OF MRB-ToAddMod-r17

MRB-ToAddMod-r17 ::=                    SEQUENCE {
    mbs-SessionId-r17                       TMGI-r17                                                OPTIONAL,   -- Cond MRBSetup
    mrb-Identity-r17                        MRB-Identity-r17,
    mrb-IdentityNew-r17                     MRB-Identity-r17                                        OPTIONAL,   -- Need N
    reestablishPDCP-r17                     ENUMERATED{true}                                        OPTIONAL,   -- Need N
    recoverPDCP-r17                         ENUMERATED{true}                                        OPTIONAL,   -- Need N
    pdcp-Config-r17                         PDCP-Config                                             OPTIONAL,   -- Cond PDCP
    ...
}

MRB-ToReleaseList-r17 ::=               SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxMRB-r17)) OF MRB-Identity-r17

-- TAG-RADIOBEARERCONFIG-STOP
-- ASN1STOP











–	RadioLinkMonitoringConfig
The IE RadioLinkMonitoringConfig is used to configure radio link monitoring for detection of beam- and/or cell radio link failure. See also TS 38.321 [3], clause 5.1.1.
RadioLinkMonitoringConfig information element
-- ASN1START
-- TAG-RADIOLINKMONITORINGCONFIG-START

RadioLinkMonitoringConfig ::=       SEQUENCE {
    failureDetectionResourcesToAddModList   SEQUENCE (SIZE(1..maxNrofFailureDetectionResources)) OF RadioLinkMonitoringRS
                                                                                                                  OPTIONAL, -- Need N
    failureDetectionResourcesToReleaseList  SEQUENCE (SIZE(1..maxNrofFailureDetectionResources)) OF RadioLinkMonitoringRS-Id
                                                                                                                  OPTIONAL, -- Need N
    beamFailureInstanceMaxCount             ENUMERATED {n1, n2, n3, n4, n5, n6, n8, n10}                          OPTIONAL, -- Need R
    beamFailureDetectionTimer               ENUMERATED {pbfd1, pbfd2, pbfd3, pbfd4, pbfd5, pbfd6, pbfd8, pbfd10}  OPTIONAL, -- Need R
    ...,
    [[
    beamFailure-r17                         BeamFailureDetection-r17                                              OPTIONAL  -- Need R
    ]]
}

BeamFailureDetection-r17 ::=        SEQUENCE {
    failureDetectionSet1-r17            BeamFailureDetectionSet-r17                                               OPTIONAL, -- Need R
    failureDetectionSet2-r17            BeamFailureDetectionSet-r17                                               OPTIONAL, -- Need R
    additionalPCI-r17                   AdditionalPCIIndex-r17                                                    OPTIONAL  -- Need R
}

RadioLinkMonitoringRS ::=           SEQUENCE {
    radioLinkMonitoringRS-Id            RadioLinkMonitoringRS-Id,
    purpose                             ENUMERATED {beamFailure, rlf, both},
    detectionResource                   CHOICE {
        ssb-Index                           SSB-Index,
        csi-RS-Index                        NZP-CSI-RS-ResourceId
    },
    ...
}

BeamFailureDetectionSet-r17  ::=    SEQUENCE {
    bfdResourcesToAddModList-r17        SEQUENCE (SIZE(1..maxNrofBFDResourcePerSet-r17)) OF BeamLinkMonitoringRS-r17
                                                                                                                  OPTIONAL, -- Need N
    bfdResourcesToReleaseList-r17       SEQUENCE (SIZE(1..maxNrofBFDResourcePerSet-r17)) OF BeamLinkMonitoringRS-Id-r17
                                                                                                                  OPTIONAL, -- Need N
    beamFailureInstanceMaxCount-r17     ENUMERATED {n1, n2, n3, n4, n5, n6, n8, n10}                              OPTIONAL, -- Need R
    beamFailureDetectionTimer-r17       ENUMERATED {pbfd1, pbfd2, pbfd3, pbfd4, pbfd5, pbfd6, pbfd8, pbfd10}      OPTIONAL, -- Need R
    ...
}

BeamLinkMonitoringRS-r17 ::=        SEQUENCE {
    beamLinkMonitoringRS-Id-r17         BeamLinkMonitoringRS-Id-r17,
    detectionResource-r17               CHOICE {
        ssb-Index                       SSB-Index,
        csi-RS-Index                    NZP-CSI-RS-ResourceId
    },
    ...
}

BeamLinkMonitoringRS-Id-r17 ::=     INTEGER (0..maxNrofFailureDetectionResources-1-r17)

-- TAG-RADIOLINKMONITORINGCONFIG-STOP
-- ASN1STOP





–	RadioLinkMonitoringRS-Id
The IE RadioLinkMonitoringRS-Id is used to identify one RadioLinkMonitoringRS.
RadioLinkMonitoringRS-Id information element
-- ASN1START
-- TAG-RADIOLINKMONITORINGRS-ID-START

RadioLinkMonitoringRS-Id ::=            INTEGER (0..maxNrofFailureDetectionResources-1)

-- TAG-RADIOLINKMONITORINGRS-ID-STOP
-- ASN1STOP

–	RAN-AreaCode
The IE RAN-AreaCode is used to identify a RAN area within the scope of a tracking area.
RAN-AreaCode information element
-- ASN1START
-- TAG-RAN-AREACODE-START

RAN-AreaCode ::=                INTEGER (0..255)

-- TAG-RAN-AREACODE-STOP
-- ASN1STOP

–	RateMatchPattern
The IE RateMatchPattern is used to configure one rate matching pattern for PDSCH, see TS 38.214 [19], clause 5.1.4.1.
RateMatchPattern information element
-- ASN1START
-- TAG-RATEMATCHPATTERN-START

RateMatchPattern ::=                SEQUENCE {
    rateMatchPatternId                  RateMatchPatternId,

    patternType                         CHOICE {
        bitmaps                             SEQUENCE {
            resourceBlocks                      BIT STRING (SIZE (275)),
            symbolsInResourceBlock              CHOICE {
                oneSlot                             BIT STRING (SIZE (14)),
                twoSlots                            BIT STRING (SIZE (28))
            },
            periodicityAndPattern               CHOICE {
                n2                                  BIT STRING (SIZE (2)),
                n4                                  BIT STRING (SIZE (4)),
                n5                                  BIT STRING (SIZE (5)),
                n8                                  BIT STRING (SIZE (8)),
                n10                                 BIT STRING (SIZE (10)),
                n20                                 BIT STRING (SIZE (20)),
                n40                                 BIT STRING (SIZE (40))
            }                                                                                           OPTIONAL,   -- Need S
            ...
        },
        controlResourceSet                  ControlResourceSetId
    },
    subcarrierSpacing                   SubcarrierSpacing                                               OPTIONAL,   -- Cond CellLevel
    dummy                               ENUMERATED { dynamic, semiStatic },
    ...,
    [[
    controlResourceSet-r16              ControlResourceSetId-r16                                        OPTIONAL    -- Need R
    ]]

}

-- TAG-RATEMATCHPATTERN-STOP
-- ASN1STOP





–	RateMatchPatternId
The IE RateMatchPatternId identifies one RateMatchPattern (see TS 38.214 [19], clause 5.1.4.1).
RateMatchPatternId information element
-- ASN1START
-- TAG-RATEMATCHPATTERNID-START

RateMatchPatternId ::=              INTEGER (0..maxNrofRateMatchPatterns-1)

-- TAG-RATEMATCHPATTERNID-STOP
-- ASN1STOP


–	RateMatchPatternLTE-CRS
The IE RateMatchPatternLTE-CRS is used to configure a pattern to rate match around LTE CRS. See TS 38.214 [19], clause 5.1.4.2.
RateMatchPatternLTE-CRS information element
-- ASN1START
-- TAG-RATEMATCHPATTERNLTE-CRS-START

RateMatchPatternLTE-CRS ::=         SEQUENCE {
    carrierFreqDL                       INTEGER (0..16383),
    carrierBandwidthDL                  ENUMERATED {n6, n15, n25, n50, n75, n100, spare2, spare1},
    mbsfn-SubframeConfigList            EUTRA-MBSFN-SubframeConfigList                                          OPTIONAL,   -- Need M
    nrofCRS-Ports                       ENUMERATED {n1, n2, n4},
    v-Shift                             ENUMERATED {n0, n1, n2, n3, n4, n5}
}

LTE-CRS-PatternList-r16 ::=         SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxLTE-CRS-Patterns-r16)) OF RateMatchPatternLTE-CRS

-- TAG-RATEMATCHPATTERNLTE-CRS-STOP
-- ASN1STOP




–	ReferenceConfiguration
The IE ReferenceConfiguration is used provide a configuration that is common, within the same cell group, to all configured non-complete candidate configurations.
ReferenceConfiguration information element
-- ASN1START
-- TAG-REFERENCECONFIGURATION-START

ReferenceConfiguration-r18 ::= OCTET STRING (CONTAINING RRCReconfiguration)

-- TAG-REFERENCECONFIGURATION-STOP
-- ASN1STOP

–	ReferenceLocation
The IE ReferenceLocation contains location information used as a reference location. The value of the field is same as Ellipsoid-Point defined in TS37.355 [49]. The first/leftmost bit of the first octet contains the most significant bit.
ReferenceLocation information element
-- ASN1START
-- TAG-REFERENCELOCATION-START

ReferenceLocation-r17 ::= OCTET STRING

-- TAG-REFERENCELOCATION-STOP
-- ASN1STOP

–	ReferenceTimeInfo
The IE ReferenceTimeInfo contains timing information for 5G internal system clock used for, e.g., time stamping, see TS 23.501 [32], clause 5.27.1.2.
ReferenceTimeInfo information element
-- ASN1START
-- TAG-REFERENCETIMEINFO-START

ReferenceTimeInfo-r16 ::= SEQUENCE {
    time-r16                            ReferenceTime-r16,
    uncertainty-r16                     INTEGER (0..32767)          OPTIONAL,   -- Need S
    timeInfoType-r16                    ENUMERATED {localClock}     OPTIONAL,   -- Need S
    referenceSFN-r16                    INTEGER (0..1023)           OPTIONAL    -- Cond RefTime
}

ReferenceTime-r16 ::=           SEQUENCE {
    refDays-r16                         INTEGER (0..72999),
    refSeconds-r16                      INTEGER (0..86399),
    refMilliSeconds-r16                 INTEGER (0..999),
    refTenNanoSeconds-r16               INTEGER (0..99999)
}

-- TAG-REFERENCETIMEINFO-STOP
-- ASN1STOP





–	RejectWaitTime
The IE RejectWaitTime is used to provide the value in seconds for timer T302.
RejectWaitTime information element
-- ASN1START
-- TAG-REJECTWAITTIME-START

RejectWaitTime ::=                  INTEGER (1..16)

-- TAG-REJECTWAITTIME-STOP
-- ASN1STOP

–	RepetitionSchemeConfig
The IE RepetitionSchemeConfig is used to configure the UE with repetition schemes as specified in TS 38.214 [19] clause 5.1.
RepetitionSchemeConfig information element
-- ASN1START
-- TAG-REPETITIONSCHEMECONFIG-START

RepetitionSchemeConfig-r16 ::= CHOICE {
    fdm-TDM-r16                        SetupRelease { FDM-TDM-r16 },
    slotBased-r16                      SetupRelease { SlotBased-r16 }
}

RepetitionSchemeConfig-v1630 ::=   SEQUENCE {
    slotBased-v1630                    SetupRelease { SlotBased-v1630 }
}

FDM-TDM-r16 ::=                SEQUENCE {
    repetitionScheme-r16           ENUMERATED {fdmSchemeA, fdmSchemeB,tdmSchemeA },
    startingSymbolOffsetK-r16      INTEGER (0..7)                                    OPTIONAL  -- Need R
}

SlotBased-r16 ::=              SEQUENCE {
    tciMapping-r16                 ENUMERATED {cyclicMapping, sequentialMapping},
    sequenceOffsetForRV-r16        INTEGER (1..3)
}

SlotBased-v1630 ::=            SEQUENCE {
    tciMapping-r16                 ENUMERATED {cyclicMapping, sequentialMapping},
    sequenceOffsetForRV-r16        INTEGER (0)
}

-- TAG-REPETITIONSCHEMECONFIG-STOP
-- ASN1STOP



–	ReportConfigId
The IE ReportConfigId is used to identify a measurement reporting configuration.
ReportConfigId information element
-- ASN1START
-- TAG-REPORTCONFIGID-START

ReportConfigId ::=                          INTEGER (1..maxReportConfigId)

-- TAG-REPORTCONFIGID-STOP
-- ASN1STOP

–	ReportConfigInterRAT
The IE ReportConfigInterRAT specifies criteria for triggering of an inter-RAT measurement reporting event, or an L2 U2N relay measurement reporting event. The inter-RAT measurement reporting events for E-UTRA and UTRA-FDD are labelled BN with N equal to 1, 2 and so on. The measurement reporting events for L2 U2N relay UE are labelled YN with N equal to 1, 2 and so on, and Z1.
Event B1:	Neighbour becomes better than absolute threshold;
Event B2:	PCell becomes worse than absolute threshold1 AND Neighbour becomes better than another absolute threshold2;
Event Y1: PCell becomes worse than absolute threshold1 AND candidate L2 U2N Relay UE becomes better than another absolute threshold2;
Event Y2: Candidate L2 U2N Relay UE becomes better than absolute threshold;
Event Z1: Serving L2 U2N Relay UE becomes worse than absolute threshold1 AND candidate L2 U2N Relay UE becomes better than another absolute threshold2;
ReportConfigInterRAT information element
-- ASN1START
-- TAG-REPORTCONFIGINTERRAT-START

ReportConfigInterRAT ::=                    SEQUENCE {
    reportType                                  CHOICE {
        periodical                                  PeriodicalReportConfigInterRAT,
        eventTriggered                              EventTriggerConfigInterRAT,
        reportCGI                                   ReportCGI-EUTRA,
        ...,
        reportSFTD                                  ReportSFTD-EUTRA
    }
}

ReportCGI-EUTRA ::=                         SEQUENCE {
    cellForWhichToReportCGI         EUTRA-PhysCellId,
    ...,
    [[
    useAutonomousGaps-r16           ENUMERATED {setup}                OPTIONAL     -- Need R
    ]]
}

ReportSFTD-EUTRA ::=                     SEQUENCE {
    reportSFTD-Meas                            BOOLEAN,
    reportRSRP                                 BOOLEAN,
    ...
}

EventTriggerConfigInterRAT ::=              SEQUENCE {
    eventId                                     CHOICE {
        eventB1                                     SEQUENCE {
            b1-ThresholdEUTRA                           MeasTriggerQuantityEUTRA,
            reportOnLeave                               BOOLEAN,
            hysteresis                                  Hysteresis,
            timeToTrigger                               TimeToTrigger,
            ...
        },
        eventB2                                     SEQUENCE {
            b2-Threshold1                               MeasTriggerQuantity,
            b2-Threshold2EUTRA                          MeasTriggerQuantityEUTRA,
            reportOnLeave                               BOOLEAN,
            hysteresis                                  Hysteresis,
            timeToTrigger                               TimeToTrigger,
            ...
        },
        ...,
        [[
        eventB1-UTRA-FDD-r16                         SEQUENCE {
            b1-ThresholdUTRA-FDD-r16                    MeasTriggerQuantityUTRA-FDD-r16,
            reportOnLeave-r16                           BOOLEAN,
            hysteresis-r16                              Hysteresis,
            timeToTrigger-r16                           TimeToTrigger,
            ...
        },
        eventB2-UTRA-FDD-r16                         SEQUENCE {
            b2-Threshold1-r16                           MeasTriggerQuantity,
            b2-Threshold2UTRA-FDD-r16                   MeasTriggerQuantityUTRA-FDD-r16,
            reportOnLeave-r16                           BOOLEAN,
            hysteresis-r16                              Hysteresis,
            timeToTrigger-r16                           TimeToTrigger,
            ...
        }
        ]],
        [[
        eventY1-Relay-r17                            SEQUENCE {
            y1-Threshold1-r17                            MeasTriggerQuantity,
            y1-Threshold2-Relay-r17                      SL-MeasTriggerQuantity-r16,
            reportOnLeave-r17                            BOOLEAN,
            hysteresis-r17                               Hysteresis,
            timeToTrigger-r17                            TimeToTrigger,
            ...
        },
        eventY2-Relay-r17                            SEQUENCE {
            y2-Threshold-Relay-r17                       SL-MeasTriggerQuantity-r16,
            reportOnLeave-r17                            BOOLEAN,
            hysteresis-r17                               Hysteresis,
            timeToTrigger-r17                            TimeToTrigger,
            ...
        }
        ]],
        [[
        eventZ1-Relay-r18                            SEQUENCE {
            z1-Threshold1-Relay-r18                      SEQUENCE {
                sl-RSRP-r18                                  SL-MeasTriggerQuantity-r16,
                sd-RSRP-r18                                  SL-MeasTriggerQuantity-r16                OPTIONAL    -- Need S
            },
            z1-Threshold2-Relay-r18                      SL-MeasTriggerQuantity-r16,
            reportOnLeave-r18                            BOOLEAN,
            hysteresis-r18                               Hysteresis,
            timeToTrigger-r18                            TimeToTrigger,
            ...
        }
        ]]
    },
    rsType                              NR-RS-Type,

    reportInterval                      ReportInterval,
    reportAmount                        ENUMERATED {r1, r2, r4, r8, r16, r32, r64, infinity},
    reportQuantity                      MeasReportQuantity,
    maxReportCells                      INTEGER (1..maxCellReport),
    ...,
    [[
    reportQuantityUTRA-FDD-r16          MeasReportQuantityUTRA-FDD-r16         OPTIONAL   -- Need R
    ]],
    [[
    includeCommonLocationInfo-r16       ENUMERATED {true}                                              OPTIONAL,   -- Need R
    includeBT-Meas-r16                  SetupRelease {BT-NameList-r16}                                 OPTIONAL,   -- Need M
    includeWLAN-Meas-r16                SetupRelease {WLAN-NameList-r16}                               OPTIONAL,   -- Need M
    includeSensor-Meas-r16              SetupRelease {Sensor-NameList-r16}                             OPTIONAL    -- Need M
    ]],
    [[
    reportQuantityRelay-r17             SL-MeasReportQuantity-r16                                      OPTIONAL    -- Need R
    ]],
    [[
    cellIndividualOffsetList-r18        SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxCellMeasEUTRA)) OF CellIndividualOffsetList-EUTRA-r18 OPTIONAL -- Need R
    ]]
}

PeriodicalReportConfigInterRAT ::=              SEQUENCE {
    reportInterval                                  ReportInterval,
    reportAmount                                    ENUMERATED {r1, r2, r4, r8, r16, r32, r64, infinity},
    reportQuantity                                  MeasReportQuantity,
    maxReportCells                                  INTEGER (1..maxCellReport),
    ...,
    [[
    reportQuantityUTRA-FDD-r16                      MeasReportQuantityUTRA-FDD-r16         OPTIONAL   -- Need R
    ]],
    [[
    includeCommonLocationInfo-r16       ENUMERATED {true}                                              OPTIONAL,   -- Need R
    includeBT-Meas-r16                  SetupRelease {BT-NameList-r16}                                 OPTIONAL,   -- Need M
    includeWLAN-Meas-r16                SetupRelease {WLAN-NameList-r16}                               OPTIONAL,   -- Need M
    includeSensor-Meas-r16              SetupRelease {Sensor-NameList-r16}                             OPTIONAL    -- Need M
    ]],
    [[
    reportQuantityRelay-r17             SL-MeasReportQuantity-r16                                      OPTIONAL    -- Need R
    ]]


}

MeasTriggerQuantityUTRA-FDD-r16 ::=          CHOICE{
    utra-FDD-RSCP-r16                            INTEGER (-5..91),
    utra-FDD-EcN0-r16                            INTEGER (0..49)
}

MeasReportQuantityUTRA-FDD-r16 ::=        SEQUENCE {
    cpich-RSCP                                BOOLEAN,
    cpich-EcN0                                BOOLEAN
}

CellIndividualOffsetList-EUTRA-r18 ::=   SEQUENCE {
    physCellId-r18                            EUTRA-PhysCellId,
    cellIndividualOffset-r18                  EUTRA-Q-OffsetRange,
    carrierFreq-r18                           ARFCN-ValueEUTRA            OPTIONAL    -- Need R
}

-- TAG-REPORTCONFIGINTERRAT-STOP
-- ASN1STOP











–	ReportConfigNR
The IE ReportConfigNR specifies criteria for triggering of an NR measurement reporting event or of a CHO, CPA or CPC event or of an L2 U2N relay measurement reporting event. For events labelled AN with N equal to 1, 2 and so on, measurement reporting events and CHO, CPA or CPC events are based on cell measurement results, which can either be derived based on SS/PBCH block or CSI-RS.
Event A1:	Serving becomes better than absolute threshold;
Event A2:	Serving becomes worse than absolute threshold;
Event A3:	Neighbour becomes amount of offset better than PCell/PSCell;
Event A4:	Neighbour becomes better than absolute threshold;
Event A5:	PCell/PSCell becomes worse than absolute threshold1 AND Neighbour/SCell becomes better than another absolute threshold2;
Event A6:	Neighbour becomes amount of offset better than SCell;
Event D1:	Distance between UE and a reference location referenceLocation1 becomes larger than configured threshold distanceThreshFromReference1 and distance between UE and a reference location referenceLocation2 becomes shorter than configured threshold distanceThreshFromReference2;
Event D2:	Distance between UE and the serving cell moving reference location determined based on movingReferenceLocation and its corresponding satellite ephemeris and epoch time broadcast in SIB19 becomes larger than configured threshold distanceThreshFromReference1 and distance between UE and a moving reference location determined based on referenceLocation and its corresponding satellite ephemeris and epoch time for the neighbor cell provided in the associated MeasObjectNR becomes shorter than configured threshold distanceThreshFromReference2;
CondEvent A3: Conditional reconfiguration candidate becomes amount of offset better than PCell/PSCell;
CondEvent A4: Conditional reconfiguration candidate becomes better than absolute threshold where condEventA4 can also be used for current PSCell (i.e., in case it is configured as candidate PSCell for CondEvent A4 evaluation) for CHO with candidate SCG(s) case;
CondEvent A5: PCell/PSCell becomes worse than absolute threshold1 AND Conditional reconfiguration candidate becomes better than another absolute threshold2;
CondEvent D1: Distance between UE and a reference location referenceLocation1 becomes larger than configured threshold distanceThreshFromReference1 and distance between UE and a reference location referenceLocation2 of conditional reconfiguration candidate becomes shorter than configured threshold distanceThreshFromReference2;
CondEvent D2: Distance between UE and the serving cell moving reference location determined based on movingReferenceLocation and its corresponding satellite ephemeris and epoch time broadcast in SIB19 becomes larger than configured threshold distanceThreshFromReference1 and distance between UE and a moving reference location determined based on referenceLocation and its corresponding satellite ephemeris and epoch time for the conditional reconfiguration candidate provided in the associated MeasObjectNR becomes shorter than configured threshold distanceThreshFromReference2;
CondEvent T1: Time measured at UE becomes more than configured threshold t1-Threshold but is less than t1-Threshold + duration;
Event X1:	Serving L2 U2N Relay UE becomes worse than absolute threshold1 AND NR Cell becomes better than another absolute threshold2;
Event X2:	Serving L2 U2N Relay UE becomes worse than absolute threshold;
For event I1, measurement reporting event is based on CLI measurement results, which can either be derived based on SRS-RSRP or CLI-RSSI.
Event I1:	Interference becomes higher than absolute threshold;
The reporting events concerning Aerial UE altitude are labelled HN with N equal to 1 and 2. Additionally, the reporting events concerning Aerial UE altitude and the neighboring cell measurements simultaneously are labelled AMHN with M equal to 3, 4, 5 and N equal to 1, 2.
Event H1:	Aerial UE altitude becomes higher than a threshold;
Event H2:	Aerial UE altitude becomes lower than a threshold;
Event A3H1:	Neighbour becomes offset better than SpCell and the Aerial UE altitude becomes higher than a threshold;
Event A3H2:	Neighbour becomes offset better than SpCell and the Aerial UE altitude becomes lower than a threshold;
Event A4H1:	Neighbour becomes better than threshold1 and the Aerial UE altitude becomes higher than a threshold2;
Event A4H2:	Neighbour becomes better than threshold1 and the Aerial UE altitude becomes lower than a threshold2;
Event A5H1:	SpCell becomes worse than threshold1 and neighbour becomes better than threshold2 and the Aerial UE altitude becomes higher than a threshold3;
Event A5H2:	SpCell becomes worse than threshold1 and neighbour becomes better than threshold2 and the Aerial UE altitude becomes lower than a threshold3.
ReportConfigNR information element
-- ASN1START
-- TAG-REPORTCONFIGNR-START

ReportConfigNR ::=                          SEQUENCE {
    reportType                                  CHOICE {
        periodical                                  PeriodicalReportConfig,
        eventTriggered                              EventTriggerConfig,
        ...,
        reportCGI                                   ReportCGI,
        reportSFTD                                  ReportSFTD-NR,
        condTriggerConfig-r16                       CondTriggerConfig-r16,
        cli-Periodical-r16                          CLI-PeriodicalReportConfig-r16,
        cli-EventTriggered-r16                      CLI-EventTriggerConfig-r16,
        rxTxPeriodical-r17                          RxTxPeriodical-r17,
        reportOnScellActivation-r18                 ReportOnScellActivation-r18
    }
}

ReportCGI ::=                     SEQUENCE {
    cellForWhichToReportCGI          PhysCellId,
        ...,
    [[
    useAutonomousGaps-r16            ENUMERATED {setup}                OPTIONAL   -- Need R
    ]]

}

ReportSFTD-NR ::=                 SEQUENCE {
    reportSFTD-Meas                  BOOLEAN,
    reportRSRP                       BOOLEAN,
    ...,
    [[
    reportSFTD-NeighMeas             ENUMERATED {true}                                OPTIONAL,   -- Need R
    drx-SFTD-NeighMeas               ENUMERATED {true}                                OPTIONAL,   -- Need R
    cellsForWhichToReportSFTD        SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxCellSFTD)) OF PhysCellId   OPTIONAL    -- Need R
    ]]
}

CondTriggerConfig-r16 ::=        SEQUENCE {
    condEventId                      CHOICE {
        condEventA3                      SEQUENCE {
            a3-Offset                        MeasTriggerQuantityOffset,
            hysteresis                       Hysteresis,
            timeToTrigger                    TimeToTrigger
        },
        condEventA5                      SEQUENCE {
            a5-Threshold1                    MeasTriggerQuantity,
            a5-Threshold2                    MeasTriggerQuantity,
            hysteresis                       Hysteresis,
            timeToTrigger                    TimeToTrigger
        },
        ...,
        condEventA4-r17                  SEQUENCE {
            a4-Threshold-r17                 MeasTriggerQuantity,
            hysteresis-r17                   Hysteresis,
            timeToTrigger-r17                TimeToTrigger
        },
        condEventD1-r17                  SEQUENCE {
            distanceThreshFromReference1-r17 INTEGER(0.. 65525),
            distanceThreshFromReference2-r17 INTEGER(0.. 65525),
            referenceLocation1-r17           ReferenceLocation-r17,
            referenceLocation2-r17           ReferenceLocation-r17,
            hysteresisLocation-r17           HysteresisLocation-r17,
            timeToTrigger-r17                TimeToTrigger
        },
        condEventT1-r17                  SEQUENCE {
            t1-Threshold-r17                 INTEGER (0..549755813887),
            duration-r17                     INTEGER (1..6000)
        },
        condEventD2-r18                  SEQUENCE {
            distanceThreshFromReference1-r18 INTEGER(0.. 65535),
            distanceThreshFromReference2-r18 INTEGER(0.. 65535),
            hysteresisLocation-r18           HysteresisLocation-r17,
            timeToTrigger-r18                TimeToTrigger
        }
    },
    rsType-r16                       NR-RS-Type,
    ...,
    [[
    nesEvent-r18                     ENUMERATED {true}                                OPTIONAL    -- Need R
    ]]

}

EventTriggerConfig ::=                      SEQUENCE {
    eventId                                     CHOICE {
        eventA1                                     SEQUENCE {
            a1-Threshold                                MeasTriggerQuantity,
            reportOnLeave                               BOOLEAN,
            hysteresis                                  Hysteresis,
            timeToTrigger                               TimeToTrigger
        },
        eventA2                                     SEQUENCE {
            a2-Threshold                                MeasTriggerQuantity,
            reportOnLeave                               BOOLEAN,
            hysteresis                                  Hysteresis,
            timeToTrigger                               TimeToTrigger
        },
        eventA3                                     SEQUENCE {
            a3-Offset                                   MeasTriggerQuantityOffset,
            reportOnLeave                               BOOLEAN,
            hysteresis                                  Hysteresis,
            timeToTrigger                               TimeToTrigger,
            useAllowedCellList                          BOOLEAN
        },
        eventA4                                     SEQUENCE {
            a4-Threshold                                MeasTriggerQuantity,
            reportOnLeave                               BOOLEAN,
            hysteresis                                  Hysteresis,
            timeToTrigger                               TimeToTrigger,
            useAllowedCellList                          BOOLEAN
        },
        eventA5                                     SEQUENCE {
            a5-Threshold1                               MeasTriggerQuantity,
            a5-Threshold2                               MeasTriggerQuantity,
            reportOnLeave                               BOOLEAN,
            hysteresis                                  Hysteresis,
            timeToTrigger                               TimeToTrigger,
            useAllowedCellList                          BOOLEAN
        },
        eventA6                                     SEQUENCE {
            a6-Offset                                   MeasTriggerQuantityOffset,
            reportOnLeave                               BOOLEAN,
            hysteresis                                  Hysteresis,
            timeToTrigger                               TimeToTrigger,
            useAllowedCellList                          BOOLEAN
        },
        ...,
        [[
        eventX1-r17                                 SEQUENCE {
            x1-Threshold1-Relay-r17                     SL-MeasTriggerQuantity-r16,
            x1-Threshold2-r17                           MeasTriggerQuantity,
            reportOnLeave-r17                           BOOLEAN,
            hysteresis-r17                              Hysteresis,
            timeToTrigger-r17                           TimeToTrigger,
            useAllowedCellList-r17                      BOOLEAN
        },
        eventX2-r17                                 SEQUENCE {
            x2-Threshold-Relay-r17                      SL-MeasTriggerQuantity-r16,
            reportOnLeave-r17                           BOOLEAN,
            hysteresis-r17                              Hysteresis,
            timeToTrigger-r17                           TimeToTrigger
        },
        eventD1-r17                                 SEQUENCE {
            distanceThreshFromReference1-r17            INTEGER(1.. 65525),
            distanceThreshFromReference2-r17            INTEGER(1.. 65525),
            referenceLocation1-r17                      ReferenceLocation-r17,
            referenceLocation2-r17                      ReferenceLocation-r17,
            reportOnLeave-r17                           BOOLEAN,
            hysteresisLocation-r17                      HysteresisLocation-r17,
            timeToTrigger-r17                           TimeToTrigger
        }
        ]],
        [[
        eventH1-r18                                SEQUENCE {
            h1-Threshold-r18                            Altitude-r18,
            h1-Hysteresis-r18                           HysteresisAltitude-r18,
            reportOnLeave-r18                           BOOLEAN,
            timeToTrigger-r18                           TimeToTrigger,
            includeAltitudeUE-r18                       BOOLEAN,
            simulMultiTriggerSingleMeasReport-r18       BOOLEAN
        },
        eventH2-r18                                SEQUENCE {
            h2-Threshold-r18                            Altitude-r18,
            h2-Hysteresis-r18                           HysteresisAltitude-r18,
            reportOnLeave-r18                           BOOLEAN,
            timeToTrigger-r18                           TimeToTrigger,
            includeAltitudeUE-r18                       BOOLEAN,
            simulMultiTriggerSingleMeasReport-r18       BOOLEAN
        },
        eventA3H1-r18                              SEQUENCE {
            a3-Offset-r18                               MeasTriggerQuantityOffset,
            reportOnLeave-r18                           BOOLEAN,
            a3-Hysteresis-r18                           Hysteresis,
            timeToTrigger-r18                           TimeToTrigger,
            useAllowedCellList-r18                      BOOLEAN,
            h1-Threshold-r18                            Altitude-r18,
            h1-Hysteresis-r18                           HysteresisAltitude-r18,
            includeAltitudeUE-r18                       BOOLEAN,
            simulMultiTriggerSingleMeasReport-r18       BOOLEAN
        },
        eventA3H2-r18                              SEQUENCE {
            a3-Offset-r18                               MeasTriggerQuantityOffset,
            reportOnLeave-r18                           BOOLEAN,
            a3-Hysteresis-r18                           Hysteresis,
            timeToTrigger-r18                           TimeToTrigger,
            useAllowedCellList-r18                      BOOLEAN,
            h2-Threshold-r18                            Altitude-r18,
            h2-Hysteresis-r18                           HysteresisAltitude-r18,
            includeAltitudeUE-r18                       BOOLEAN,
            simulMultiTriggerSingleMeasReport-r18       BOOLEAN
        },
        eventA4H1-r18                              SEQUENCE {
            a4-Threshold-r18                            MeasTriggerQuantity,
            reportOnLeave-r18                           BOOLEAN,
            a4-Hysteresis-r18                           Hysteresis,
            timeToTrigger-r18                           TimeToTrigger,
            useAllowedCellList-r18                      BOOLEAN,
            h1-Threshold-r18                            Altitude-r18,
            h1-Hysteresis-r18                           HysteresisAltitude-r18,
            includeAltitudeUE-r18                       BOOLEAN,
            simulMultiTriggerSingleMeasReport-r18       BOOLEAN
        },
        eventA4H2-r18                              SEQUENCE {
            a4-Threshold-r18                            MeasTriggerQuantity,
            reportOnLeave-r18                           BOOLEAN,
            a4-Hysteresis-r18                           Hysteresis,
            timeToTrigger-r18                           TimeToTrigger,
            useAllowedCellList-r18                      BOOLEAN,
            h2-Threshold-r18                            Altitude-r18,
            h2-Hysteresis-r18                           HysteresisAltitude-r18,
            includeAltitudeUE-r18                       BOOLEAN,
            simulMultiTriggerSingleMeasReport-r18       BOOLEAN
        },
        eventA5H1-r18                              SEQUENCE {
            a5-Threshold1-r18                           MeasTriggerQuantity,
            a5-Threshold2-r18                           MeasTriggerQuantity,
            reportOnLeave-r18                           BOOLEAN,
            a5-Hysteresis-r18                           Hysteresis,
            timeToTrigger-r18                           TimeToTrigger,
            useAllowedCellList-r18                      BOOLEAN,
            h1-Threshold-r18                            Altitude-r18,
            h1-Hysteresis-r18                           HysteresisAltitude-r18,
            includeAltitudeUE-r18                       BOOLEAN,
            simulMultiTriggerSingleMeasReport-r18       BOOLEAN
        },
        eventA5H2-r18                             SEQUENCE {
            a5-Threshold1-r18                           MeasTriggerQuantity,
            a5-Threshold2-r18                           MeasTriggerQuantity,
            reportOnLeave-r18                           BOOLEAN,
            a5-Hysteresis-r18                           Hysteresis,
            timeToTrigger-r18                           TimeToTrigger,
            useAllowedCellList-r18                      BOOLEAN,
            h2-Threshold-r18                            Altitude-r18,
            h2-Hysteresis-r18                           HysteresisAltitude-r18,
            includeAltitudeUE-r18                       BOOLEAN,
            simulMultiTriggerSingleMeasReport-r18       BOOLEAN
        },
        eventD2-r18                                 SEQUENCE {
            distanceThreshFromReference1-r18            INTEGER(1.. 65535),
            distanceThreshFromReference2-r18            INTEGER(1.. 65535),
            reportOnLeave-r18                           BOOLEAN,
            hysteresisLocation-r18                      HysteresisLocation-r17,
            timeToTrigger-r18                           TimeToTrigger
        }
        ]]
    },
    rsType                                      NR-RS-Type,
    reportInterval                              ReportInterval,
    reportAmount                                ENUMERATED {r1, r2, r4, r8, r16, r32, r64, infinity},
    reportQuantityCell                          MeasReportQuantity,
    maxReportCells                              INTEGER (1..maxCellReport),
    reportQuantityRS-Indexes                     MeasReportQuantity                                            OPTIONAL,   -- Need R
    maxNrofRS-IndexesToReport                   INTEGER (1..maxNrofIndexesToReport)                            OPTIONAL,   -- Need R
    includeBeamMeasurements                     BOOLEAN,
    reportAddNeighMeas                          ENUMERATED {setup}                                             OPTIONAL,   -- Need R
    ...,
    [[
    measRSSI-ReportConfig-r16                   MeasRSSI-ReportConfig-r16                                      OPTIONAL,   -- Need R
    useT312-r16                                 BOOLEAN                                                        OPTIONAL,   -- Need M
    includeCommonLocationInfo-r16               ENUMERATED {true}                                              OPTIONAL,   -- Need R
    includeBT-Meas-r16                          SetupRelease {BT-NameList-r16}                                 OPTIONAL,   -- Need M
    includeWLAN-Meas-r16                        SetupRelease {WLAN-NameList-r16}                               OPTIONAL,   -- Need M
    includeSensor-Meas-r16                      SetupRelease {Sensor-NameList-r16}                             OPTIONAL    -- Need M
    ]],
    [[
    coarseLocationRequest-r17                   ENUMERATED {true}                                              OPTIONAL,   -- Need R
    reportQuantityRelay-r17                     SL-MeasReportQuantity-r16                                      OPTIONAL    -- Need R
    ]],
    [[
    numberOfTriggeringCells-r18                 INTEGER (2..maxCellReport)                                     OPTIONAL,   -- Need R
    cellIndividualOffsetList-r18                SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxNrofCellMeas)) OF CellIndividualOffsetList-r18 OPTIONAL, -- Need R
    eventX1-SD-Threshold1-r18                   SL-MeasTriggerQuantity-r16                                     OPTIONAL,   -- Need S
    eventX2-SD-Threshold-r18                    SL-MeasTriggerQuantity-r16                                     OPTIONAL,   -- Need S
    reportOnBestCellChange-r18                  ENUMERATED {n1, n2}                                            OPTIONAL,    -- Need R
    enteringLeavingReport-r18                   ENUMERATED {true}                                              OPTIONAL     -- Need R
    ]]
}

PeriodicalReportConfig ::=                  SEQUENCE {
    rsType                                      NR-RS-Type,
    reportInterval                              ReportInterval,
    reportAmount                                ENUMERATED {r1, r2, r4, r8, r16, r32, r64, infinity},
    reportQuantityCell                          MeasReportQuantity,
    maxReportCells                              INTEGER (1..maxCellReport),
    reportQuantityRS-Indexes                    MeasReportQuantity                                             OPTIONAL,   -- Need R
    maxNrofRS-IndexesToReport                   INTEGER (1..maxNrofIndexesToReport)                            OPTIONAL,   -- Need R
    includeBeamMeasurements                     BOOLEAN,
    useAllowedCellList                          BOOLEAN,
    ...,
    [[
    measRSSI-ReportConfig-r16                   MeasRSSI-ReportConfig-r16                                      OPTIONAL,   -- Need R
    includeCommonLocationInfo-r16               ENUMERATED {true}                                              OPTIONAL,   -- Need R
    includeBT-Meas-r16                          SetupRelease {BT-NameList-r16}                                 OPTIONAL,   -- Need M
    includeWLAN-Meas-r16                        SetupRelease {WLAN-NameList-r16}                               OPTIONAL,   -- Need M
    includeSensor-Meas-r16                      SetupRelease {Sensor-NameList-r16}                             OPTIONAL,   -- Need M
    ul-DelayValueConfig-r16                     SetupRelease { UL-DelayValueConfig-r16 }                       OPTIONAL,   -- Need M
    reportAddNeighMeas-r16                      ENUMERATED {setup}                                             OPTIONAL    -- Need R
    ]],
    [[
    ul-ExcessDelayConfig-r17                    SetupRelease { UL-ExcessDelayConfig-r17 }                      OPTIONAL,   -- Need M
    coarseLocationRequest-r17                   ENUMERATED {true}                                              OPTIONAL,   -- Need R
    reportQuantityRelay-r17                     SL-MeasReportQuantity-r16                                      OPTIONAL    -- Need R
    ]]
}

NR-RS-Type ::=                              ENUMERATED {ssb, csi-rs}

MeasTriggerQuantity ::=                     CHOICE {
    rsrp                                        RSRP-Range,
    rsrq                                        RSRQ-Range,
    sinr                                        SINR-Range
}

MeasTriggerQuantityOffset ::=               CHOICE {
    rsrp                                        INTEGER (-30..30),
    rsrq                                        INTEGER (-30..30),
    sinr                                        INTEGER (-30..30)
}


MeasReportQuantity ::=                      SEQUENCE {
    rsrp                                        BOOLEAN,
    rsrq                                        BOOLEAN,
    sinr                                        BOOLEAN
}

MeasRSSI-ReportConfig-r16 ::=               SEQUENCE {
    channelOccupancyThreshold-r16               RSSI-Range-r16         OPTIONAL   -- Need R
}

CLI-EventTriggerConfig-r16 ::=              SEQUENCE {
    eventId-r16                                 CHOICE {
        eventI1-r16                                 SEQUENCE {
            i1-Threshold-r16                            MeasTriggerQuantityCLI-r16,
            reportOnLeave-r16                           BOOLEAN,
            hysteresis-r16                              Hysteresis,
            timeToTrigger-r16                           TimeToTrigger
        },
    ...
    },
    reportInterval-r16                          ReportInterval,
    reportAmount-r16                            ENUMERATED {r1, r2, r4, r8, r16, r32, r64, infinity},
    maxReportCLI-r16                            INTEGER (1..maxCLI-Report-r16),
    ...
}

CLI-PeriodicalReportConfig-r16 ::=          SEQUENCE {
    reportInterval-r16                          ReportInterval,
    reportAmount-r16                            ENUMERATED {r1, r2, r4, r8, r16, r32, r64, infinity},
    reportQuantityCLI-r16                       MeasReportQuantityCLI-r16,
    maxReportCLI-r16                            INTEGER (1..maxCLI-Report-r16),
    ...
}

RxTxPeriodical-r17  ::=                     SEQUENCE {
    rxTxReportInterval-r17                      RxTxReportInterval-r17                             OPTIONAL,   -- Need R
    reportAmount-r17                            ENUMERATED {r1, infinity, spare6, spare5, spare4, spare3, spare2, spare1},
    ...
}

RxTxReportInterval-r17 ::= ENUMERATED {ms80,ms120,ms160,ms240,ms320,ms480,ms640,ms1024,ms1280,ms2048,ms2560,ms5120,spare4,spare3,spare2,spare1}

MeasTriggerQuantityCLI-r16 ::=              CHOICE {
    srs-RSRP-r16                                SRS-RSRP-Range-r16,
    cli-RSSI-r16                                CLI-RSSI-Range-r16
}

MeasReportQuantityCLI-r16 ::=               ENUMERATED {srs-rsrp, cli-rssi}

ReportOnScellActivation-r18 ::=             SEQUENCE {
    rsType-r18                                  NR-RS-Type,
    reportQuantityRS-Indexes-r18                MeasReportQuantity,
    maxNrofRS-IndexesToReport-r18               INTEGER (1..maxNrofIndexesToReport),
    includeBeamMeasurements-r18                 BOOLEAN
}

CellIndividualOffsetList-r18 ::=    SEQUENCE {
    physCellId-r18                      PhysCellId,
    cellIndividualOffset-r18            Q-OffsetRangeList,
    ssbFrequency-r18                    ARFCN-ValueNR              OPTIONAL    -- Need R
}

-- TAG-REPORTCONFIGNR-STOP
-- ASN1STOP

























–	ReportConfigNR-SL
The IE ReportConfigNR-SL specifies criteria for triggering of a CBR measurement reporting event for NR sidelink communication/discovery. Measurement reporting events are based on CBR measurement results on the corresponding transmission resource pools. These events are labelled CN with N equal to 1 and 2.
Event C1:	CBR of NR sidelink communication/discovery is above a threshold;
Event C2:	CBR of NR sidelink communication/discovery is below a threshold;
ReportConfigNR-SL information element
-- ASN1START
-- TAG-REPORTCONFIGNR-SL-START

ReportConfigNR-SL-r16 ::=            SEQUENCE {
    reportType-r16                       CHOICE {
        periodical-r16                       PeriodicalReportConfigNR-SL-r16,
        eventTriggered-r16                   EventTriggerConfigNR-SL-r16
    }
}

EventTriggerConfigNR-SL-r16::=       SEQUENCE {
    eventId-r16                          CHOICE {
        eventC1                              SEQUENCE {
            c1-Threshold-r16                     SL-CBR-r16,
            hysteresis-r16                       Hysteresis,
            timeToTrigger-r16                    TimeToTrigger
        },
        eventC2-r16                  SEQUENCE {
            c2-Threshold-r16             SL-CBR-r16,
            hysteresis-r16               Hysteresis,
            timeToTrigger-r16            TimeToTrigger
        },
        ...
    },
    reportInterval-r16               ReportInterval,
    reportAmount-r16                 ENUMERATED {r1, r2, r4, r8, r16, r32, r64, infinity},
    reportQuantity-r16               MeasReportQuantity-r16,
    ...
}

PeriodicalReportConfigNR-SL-r16 ::=  SEQUENCE {
    reportInterval-r16                   ReportInterval,
    reportAmount-r16                     ENUMERATED {r1, r2, r4, r8, r16, r32, r64, infinity},
    reportQuantity-r16                   MeasReportQuantity-r16,
    ...
}

MeasReportQuantity-r16 ::=           SEQUENCE {
    cbr-r16                              BOOLEAN,
    ...
}

-- TAG-REPORTCONFIGNR-SL-STOP
-- ASN1STOP







–	ReportConfigToAddModList
The IE ReportConfigToAddModList concerns a list of reporting configurations to add or modify.
ReportConfigToAddModList information element
-- ASN1START
-- TAG-REPORTCONFIGTOADDMODLIST-START

ReportConfigToAddModList ::=        SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxReportConfigId)) OF ReportConfigToAddMod

ReportConfigToAddMod ::=            SEQUENCE {
    reportConfigId                      ReportConfigId,
    reportConfig                        CHOICE {
        reportConfigNR                      ReportConfigNR,
        ...,
        reportConfigInterRAT                ReportConfigInterRAT,
        reportConfigNR-SL-r16               ReportConfigNR-SL-r16
    }
}

-- TAG-REPORTCONFIGTOADDMODLIST-STOP
-- ASN1STOP

–	ReportInterval
The IE ReportInterval indicates the interval between periodical reports. The ReportInterval is applicable if the UE performs periodical reporting (i.e. when reportAmount exceeds 1) when reportType is set to either eventTriggered, periodical, cli-EventTriggered or cli-Periodical. Value ms120 corresponds to 120 ms, value ms240 corresponds to 240 ms and so on, while value min1 corresponds to 1 min, min6 corresponds to 6 min and so on.
ReportInterval information element
-- ASN1START
-- TAG-REPORTINTERVAL-START

ReportInterval ::=                  ENUMERATED {ms120, ms240, ms480, ms640, ms1024, ms2048, ms5120, ms10240, ms20480, ms40960,
                                                    min1,min6, min12, min30 }

-- TAG-REPORTINTERVAL-STOP
-- ASN1STOP

–	ReselectionThreshold
The IE ReselectionThreshold is used to indicate an Rx level threshold for cell reselection. Actual value of threshold = field value * 2 [dB].
ReselectionThreshold information element
-- ASN1START
-- TAG-RESELECTIONTHRESHOLD-START

ReselectionThreshold ::=                INTEGER (0..31)

-- TAG-RESELECTIONTHRESHOLD-STOP
-- ASN1STOP

–	ReselectionThresholdQ
The IE ReselectionThresholdQ is used to indicate a quality level threshold for cell reselection. Actual value of threshold = field value [dB].
ReselectionThresholdQ information element
-- ASN1START
-- TAG-RESELECTIONTHRESHOLDQ-START

ReselectionThresholdQ ::=           INTEGER (0..31)

-- TAG-RESELECTIONTHRESHOLDQ-STOP
-- ASN1STOP

–	ResumeCause
The IE ResumeCause is used to indicate the resume cause in RRCResumeRequest, RRCResumeRequest1 and UEAssistanceInformation.
ResumeCause information element
-- ASN1START
-- TAG-RESUMECAUSE-START

ResumeCause ::=             ENUMERATED {emergency, highPriorityAccess, mt-Access, mo-Signalling,
                                        mo-Data, mo-VoiceCall, mo-VideoCall, mo-SMS, rna-Update, mps-PriorityAccess,
                                        mcs-PriorityAccess, mt-SDT-v1810, srs-PosConfigOrActivationReq-v1800, spare3, spare2, spare1 }

-- TAG-RESUMECAUSE-STOP
-- ASN1STOP

–	RLC-BearerConfig
The IE RLC-BearerConfig is used to configure an RLC entity, a corresponding logical channel in MAC and the linking to a PDCP entity (served radio bearer).
RLC-BearerConfig information element
-- ASN1START
-- TAG-RLC-BEARERCONFIG-START

RLC-BearerConfig ::=                        SEQUENCE {
    logicalChannelIdentity                      LogicalChannelIdentity,
    servedRadioBearer                           CHOICE {
        srb-Identity                                SRB-Identity,
        drb-Identity                                DRB-Identity
    }                                                                                               OPTIONAL,   -- Cond LCH-SetupOnly
    reestablishRLC                              ENUMERATED {true}                                   OPTIONAL,   -- Need N
    rlc-Config                                  RLC-Config                                          OPTIONAL,   -- Cond LCH-Setup
    mac-LogicalChannelConfig                    LogicalChannelConfig                                OPTIONAL,   -- Cond LCH-Setup
    ...,
    [[
    rlc-Config-v1610                            RLC-Config-v1610                                    OPTIONAL    -- Need R
    ]],
    [[
    rlc-Config-v1700                            RLC-Config-v1700                                    OPTIONAL,   -- Need R
    logicalChannelIdentityExt-r17               LogicalChannelIdentityExt-r17                       OPTIONAL,   -- Cond LCH-SetupModMRB
    multicastRLC-BearerConfig-r17               MulticastRLC-BearerConfig-r17                       OPTIONAL,   -- Cond LCH-SetupOnlyMRB
    servedRadioBearerSRB4-r17                   SRB-Identity-v1700                                  OPTIONAL    -- Cond LCH-SetupOnlySRB4
    ]],
    [[
    servedRadioBearerSRB5-r18                   SRB-Identity-v1800                                  OPTIONAL    -- Cond LCH-SetupOnlySRB5
    ]]
}

MulticastRLC-BearerConfig-r17 ::=           SEQUENCE {
    servedMBS-RadioBearer-r17                   MRB-Identity-r17,
    isPTM-Entity-r17                            ENUMERATED {true}                                   OPTIONAL    -- Need S
}

LogicalChannelIdentityExt-r17 ::=           INTEGER (320..65855)

-- TAG-RLC-BEARERCONFIG-STOP
-- ASN1STOP





–	RLC-Config
The IE RLC-Config is used to specify the RLC configuration of SRBs, multicast MRBs and DRBs.
RLC-Config information element
-- ASN1START
-- TAG-RLC-CONFIG-START

RLC-Config ::=                      CHOICE {
    am                                  SEQUENCE {
        ul-AM-RLC                           UL-AM-RLC,
        dl-AM-RLC                           DL-AM-RLC
    },
    um-Bi-Directional                   SEQUENCE {
        ul-UM-RLC                           UL-UM-RLC,
        dl-UM-RLC                           DL-UM-RLC
    },
    um-Uni-Directional-UL               SEQUENCE {
        ul-UM-RLC                           UL-UM-RLC
    },
    um-Uni-Directional-DL               SEQUENCE {
        dl-UM-RLC                           DL-UM-RLC
    },
    ...
}

UL-AM-RLC ::=                       SEQUENCE {
    sn-FieldLength                      SN-FieldLengthAM                                    OPTIONAL,   -- Cond Reestab
    t-PollRetransmit                    T-PollRetransmit,
    pollPDU                             PollPDU,
    pollByte                            PollByte,
    maxRetxThreshold                    ENUMERATED { t1, t2, t3, t4, t6, t8, t16, t32 }
}

DL-AM-RLC ::=                       SEQUENCE {
    sn-FieldLength                      SN-FieldLengthAM                                    OPTIONAL,   -- Cond Reestab
    t-Reassembly                        T-Reassembly,
    t-StatusProhibit                    T-StatusProhibit
}

UL-UM-RLC ::=                       SEQUENCE {
    sn-FieldLength                      SN-FieldLengthUM                                    OPTIONAL    -- Cond Reestab
}

DL-UM-RLC ::=                       SEQUENCE {
    sn-FieldLength                      SN-FieldLengthUM                                    OPTIONAL,   -- Cond Reestab
    t-Reassembly                        T-Reassembly
}

T-PollRetransmit ::=                ENUMERATED {
                                        ms5, ms10, ms15, ms20, ms25, ms30, ms35,
                                        ms40, ms45, ms50, ms55, ms60, ms65, ms70,
                                        ms75, ms80, ms85, ms90, ms95, ms100, ms105,
                                        ms110, ms115, ms120, ms125, ms130, ms135,
                                        ms140, ms145, ms150, ms155, ms160, ms165,
                                        ms170, ms175, ms180, ms185, ms190, ms195,
                                        ms200, ms205, ms210, ms215, ms220, ms225,
                                        ms230, ms235, ms240, ms245, ms250, ms300,
                                        ms350, ms400, ms450, ms500, ms800, ms1000,
                                        ms2000, ms4000, ms1-v1610, ms2-v1610, ms3-v1610,
                                        ms4-v1610, spare1}


PollPDU ::=                         ENUMERATED {
                                        p4, p8, p16, p32, p64, p128, p256, p512, p1024, p2048, p4096, p6144, p8192, p12288, p16384,p20480,
                                        p24576, p28672, p32768, p40960, p49152, p57344, p65536, infinity, spare8, spare7, spare6, spare5, spare4,
                                        spare3, spare2, spare1}

PollByte ::=                        ENUMERATED {
                                        kB1, kB2, kB5, kB8, kB10, kB15, kB25, kB50, kB75,
                                        kB100, kB125, kB250, kB375, kB500, kB750, kB1000,
                                        kB1250, kB1500, kB2000, kB3000, kB4000, kB4500,
                                        kB5000, kB5500, kB6000, kB6500, kB7000, kB7500,
                                        mB8, mB9, mB10, mB11, mB12, mB13, mB14, mB15,
                                        mB16, mB17, mB18, mB20, mB25, mB30, mB40, infinity,
                                        spare20, spare19, spare18, spare17, spare16,
                                        spare15, spare14, spare13, spare12, spare11,
                                        spare10, spare9, spare8, spare7, spare6, spare5,
                                        spare4, spare3, spare2, spare1}

T-Reassembly ::=                    ENUMERATED {
                                        ms0, ms5, ms10, ms15, ms20, ms25, ms30, ms35,
                                        ms40, ms45, ms50, ms55, ms60, ms65, ms70,
                                        ms75, ms80, ms85, ms90, ms95, ms100, ms110,
                                        ms120, ms130, ms140, ms150, ms160, ms170,
                                        ms180, ms190, ms200, spare1}

T-StatusProhibit ::=                ENUMERATED {
                                        ms0, ms5, ms10, ms15, ms20, ms25, ms30, ms35,
                                        ms40, ms45, ms50, ms55, ms60, ms65, ms70,
                                        ms75, ms80, ms85, ms90, ms95, ms100, ms105,
                                        ms110, ms115, ms120, ms125, ms130, ms135,
                                        ms140, ms145, ms150, ms155, ms160, ms165,
                                        ms170, ms175, ms180, ms185, ms190, ms195,
                                        ms200, ms205, ms210, ms215, ms220, ms225,
                                        ms230, ms235, ms240, ms245, ms250, ms300,
                                        ms350, ms400, ms450, ms500, ms800, ms1000,
                                        ms1200, ms1600, ms2000, ms2400, spare2, spare1}

SN-FieldLengthUM ::=                ENUMERATED {size6, size12}
SN-FieldLengthAM ::=                ENUMERATED {size12, size18}

RLC-Config-v1610 ::=                SEQUENCE {
    dl-AM-RLC-v1610                     DL-AM-RLC-v1610
}

RLC-Config-v1700 ::=                SEQUENCE {
    dl-AM-RLC-v1700                     DL-AM-RLC-v1700,
    dl-UM-RLC-v1700                     DL-UM-RLC-v1700
}

DL-AM-RLC-v1610 ::=                 SEQUENCE {
    t-StatusProhibit-v1610              T-StatusProhibit-v1610                               OPTIONAL,   -- Need R
    ...
}

DL-AM-RLC-v1700 ::=                 SEQUENCE {
    t-ReassemblyExt-r17                 T-ReassemblyExt-r17                                  OPTIONAL    -- Need R
}

DL-UM-RLC-v1700 ::=                 SEQUENCE {
    t-ReassemblyExt-r17                 T-ReassemblyExt-r17                                  OPTIONAL    -- Need R
}

T-StatusProhibit-v1610 ::=          ENUMERATED { ms1, ms2, ms3, ms4, spare4, spare3, spare2, spare1}

T-ReassemblyExt-r17 ::=             ENUMERATED {ms210, ms220, ms340, ms350, ms550, ms1100, ms1650, ms2200}

-- TAG-RLC-CONFIG-STOP
-- ASN1STOP





–	RLF-TimersAndConstants
The IE RLF-TimersAndConstants is used to configure UE specific timers and constants.
RLF-TimersAndConstants information element
-- ASN1START
-- TAG-RLF-TIMERSANDCONSTANTS-START

RLF-TimersAndConstants ::=          SEQUENCE {
    t310                                ENUMERATED {ms0, ms50, ms100, ms200, ms500, ms1000, ms2000, ms4000, ms6000},
    n310                                ENUMERATED {n1, n2, n3, n4, n6, n8, n10, n20},
    n311                                ENUMERATED {n1, n2, n3, n4, n5, n6, n8, n10},
    ...,
    [[
    t311                                ENUMERATED {ms1000, ms3000, ms5000, ms10000, ms15000, ms20000, ms30000}
    ]]
}

-- TAG-RLF-TIMERSANDCONSTANTS-STOP
-- ASN1STOP



–	RNTI-Value
The IE RNTI-Value represents a Radio Network Temporary Identity.
RNTI-Value information element
-- ASN1START
-- TAG-RNTI-VALUE-START

RNTI-Value ::=                      INTEGER (0..65535)

-- TAG-RNTI-VALUE-STOP
-- ASN1STOP

–	RSRP-Range
The IE RSRP-Range specifies the value range used in RSRP measurements and thresholds. For measurements, integer value for RSRP measurements is according to Table 10.1.6.1-1 in TS 38.133 [14]. For thresholds, the actual value is (IE value – 156) dBm, except for the IE value 127, in which case the actual value is infinity.
RSRP-Range information element
-- ASN1START
-- TAG-RSRP-RANGE-START

RSRP-Range ::=                      INTEGER(0..127)

-- TAG-RSRP-RANGE-STOP
-- ASN1STOP

–	RSRQ-Range
The IE RSRQ-Range specifies the value range used in RSRQ measurements and thresholds. For measurements, integer value for RSRQ measurements is according to Table 10.1.11.1-1 in TS 38.133 [14]. For thresholds, the actual value is (IE value – 87) / 2 dB.
RSRQ-Range information element
-- ASN1START
-- TAG-RSRQ-RANGE-START

RSRQ-Range ::=                      INTEGER(0..127)

-- TAG-RSRQ-RANGE-STOP
-- ASN1STOP

–	RSSI-Range
The IE RSSI-Range specifies the value range used in RSSI measurements and thresholds for NR operation with shared spectrum channel access. The integer value for RSSI measurements is according to Table 10.1.34.3-1 in TS 38.133 [14].
RSSI-Range information element
-- ASN1START
-- TAG-RSSI-RANGE-START

RSSI-Range-r16 ::=                  INTEGER(0..76)

-- TAG-RSSI-RANGE-STOP
-- ASN1STOP

–	RxTxTimeDiff
The IE RxTxTimeDiff contains the Rx-Tx time difference measurement at either the UE or the gNB.
RxTxTimeDiff information element
-- ASN1START
-- TAG-RXTXTIMEDIFF-START

RxTxTimeDiff-r17  ::= SEQUENCE {
    result-k5-r17         INTEGER (0..61565)                 OPTIONAL, -- Need N
    ...
}

-- TAG-RXTXTIMEDIFF-STOP
-- ASN1STOP



–	SCellActivationRS-Config
The IE SCellActivationRS-Config is used to configure a Reference Signal for fast activation of the SCell where the IE is included (see TS 38.214 [19], clause 5.2.1.5.3. Usage of an SCellActivationRS-Config is indicated by including its scellActivationRS-Id in the Enhanced SCell activation MAC CE (see TS 38.321 [3] clause 6.1.3.55).
SCellActivationRS-Config information element
-- ASN1START
-- TAG-SCELLACTIVATIONRS-CONFIG-START

SCellActivationRS-Config-r17 ::= SEQUENCE {
    scellActivationRS-Id-r17         SCellActivationRS-ConfigId-r17,
    resourceSet-r17                  NZP-CSI-RS-ResourceSetId,
    gapBetweenBursts-r17             INTEGER (2..31)                                                            OPTIONAL, -- Need R
    qcl-Info-r17                     TCI-StateId,
    ...
}

-- TAG-SCELLACTIVATIONRS-CONFIG-STOP
-- ASN1STOP



–	SCellActivationRS-ConfigId
The IE SCellActivationRS-ConfigId is used to identify one SCellActivationRS-Config.
SCellActivationRS-ConfigId information element
-- ASN1START
-- TAG-SCELLACTIVATIONRS-CONFIGID-START

SCellActivationRS-ConfigId-r17 ::=        INTEGER (1.. maxNrofSCellActRS-r17)

-- TAG-SCELLACTIVATIONRS-CONFIGID-STOP
-- ASN1STOP

–	SCellIndex
The IE SCellIndex concerns a short identity, used to identify an SCell. The value range is shared across the Cell Groups.
SCellIndex information element
-- ASN1START
-- TAG-SCELLINDEX-START

SCellIndex ::=                      INTEGER (1..31)

-- TAG-SCELLINDEX-STOP
-- ASN1STOP

–	SchedulingRequestConfig
The IE SchedulingRequestConfig is used to configure the parameters, for the dedicated scheduling request (SR) resources.
SchedulingRequestConfig information element
-- ASN1START
-- TAG-SCHEDULINGREQUESTCONFIG-START

SchedulingRequestConfig ::=         SEQUENCE {
    schedulingRequestToAddModList       SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxNrofSR-ConfigPerCellGroup)) OF SchedulingRequestToAddMod
                                                                                                          OPTIONAL, -- Need N
    schedulingRequestToReleaseList      SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxNrofSR-ConfigPerCellGroup)) OF SchedulingRequestId
                                                                                                          OPTIONAL  -- Need N
}

SchedulingRequestToAddMod ::=       SEQUENCE {
    schedulingRequestId                 SchedulingRequestId,
    sr-ProhibitTimer                    ENUMERATED {ms1, ms2, ms4, ms8, ms16, ms32, ms64, ms128}          OPTIONAL, -- Need S
    sr-TransMax                         ENUMERATED { n4, n8, n16, n32, n64, spare3, spare2, spare1}
}

SchedulingRequestConfig-v1700 ::=       SEQUENCE {
    schedulingRequestToAddModListExt-v1700  SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxNrofSR-ConfigPerCellGroup)) OF SchedulingRequestToAddModExt-v1700
                                                                                                          OPTIONAL  -- Need N
}

SchedulingRequestToAddModExt-v1700 ::=  SEQUENCE {
    sr-ProhibitTimer-v1700                  ENUMERATED { ms192, ms256, ms320, ms384, ms448, ms512, ms576, ms640, ms1082, spare7, spare6, spare5, spare4, spare3, spare2, spare1}
                                                                                                          OPTIONAL  -- Need R
}

-- TAG-SCHEDULINGREQUESTCONFIG-STOP
-- ASN1STOP





–	SchedulingRequestId
The IE SchedulingRequestId is used to identify a Scheduling Request instance in the MAC layer.
SchedulingRequestId information element
-- ASN1START
-- TAG-SCHEDULINGREQUESTID-START

SchedulingRequestId ::=             INTEGER (0..7)

-- TAG-SCHEDULINGREQUESTID-STOP
-- ASN1STOP

–	SchedulingRequestResourceConfig
The IE SchedulingRequestResourceConfig determines physical layer resources on PUCCH where the UE may send the dedicated scheduling request (D-SR) (see TS 38.213 [13], clause 9.2.4).
SchedulingRequestResourceConfig information element
-- ASN1START
-- TAG-SCHEDULINGREQUESTRESOURCECONFIG-START

SchedulingRequestResourceConfig ::=     SEQUENCE {
    schedulingRequestResourceId             SchedulingRequestResourceId,
    schedulingRequestID                     SchedulingRequestId,
    periodicityAndOffset                    CHOICE {
        sym2                                    NULL,
        sym6or7                                 NULL,
        sl1                                     NULL,                       -- Recurs in every slot
        sl2                                     INTEGER (0..1),
        sl4                                     INTEGER (0..3),
        sl5                                     INTEGER (0..4),
        sl8                                     INTEGER (0..7),
        sl10                                    INTEGER (0..9),
        sl16                                    INTEGER (0..15),
        sl20                                    INTEGER (0..19),
        sl40                                    INTEGER (0..39),
        sl80                                    INTEGER (0..79),
        sl160                                   INTEGER (0..159),
        sl320                                   INTEGER (0..319),
        sl640                                   INTEGER (0..639)
    }                                                                                                       OPTIONAL,   -- Need M
    resource                                PUCCH-ResourceId                                                OPTIONAL    -- Need M
}

SchedulingRequestResourceConfigExt-v1610 ::=   SEQUENCE {
    phy-PriorityIndex-r16                       ENUMERATED {p0, p1}                                         OPTIONAL,   -- Need M
    ...
}

SchedulingRequestResourceConfigExt-v1700 ::=    SEQUENCE {
    periodicityAndOffset-r17                        CHOICE {
        sl1280                                          INTEGER (0..1279),
        sl2560                                          INTEGER (0..2559),
        sl5120                                          INTEGER (0..5119)
    }                                                                                                       OPTIONAL   -- Need M
}

-- TAG-SCHEDULINGREQUESTRESOURCECONFIG-STOP
-- ASN1STOP



–	SchedulingRequestResourceId
The IE SchedulingRequestResourceId is used to identify scheduling request resources on PUCCH.
SchedulingRequestResourceId information element
-- ASN1START
-- TAG-SCHEDULINGREQUESTRESOURCEID-START

SchedulingRequestResourceId ::=     INTEGER (1..maxNrofSR-Resources)

-- TAG-SCHEDULINGREQUESTRESOURCEID-STOP
-- ASN1STOP

–	ScramblingId
The IE ScramblingID is used for scrambling channels and reference signals.
ScramblingId information element
-- ASN1START
-- TAG-SCRAMBLINGID-START

ScramblingId ::=                    INTEGER(0..1023)

-- TAG-SCRAMBLINGID-STOP
-- ASN1STOP

–	SCS-SpecificCarrier
The IE SCS-SpecificCarrier provides parameters determining the location and width of the actual carrier or the carrier bandwidth. It is defined specifically for a numerology (subcarrier spacing (SCS)) and in relation (frequency offset) to Point A.
SCS-SpecificCarrier information element
-- ASN1START
-- TAG-SCS-SPECIFICCARRIER-START

SCS-SpecificCarrier ::=             SEQUENCE {
    offsetToCarrier                     INTEGER (0..2199),
    subcarrierSpacing                   SubcarrierSpacing,
    carrierBandwidth                    INTEGER (1..maxNrofPhysicalResourceBlocks),
    ...,
    [[
    txDirectCurrentLocation         INTEGER (0..4095)                                       OPTIONAL            -- Need S
    ]]
}

-- TAG-SCS-SPECIFICCARRIER-STOP
-- ASN1STOP



–	SDAP-Config
The IE SDAP-Config is used to set the configurable SDAP parameters for a data radio bearer. All configured instances of SDAP-Config with the same value of pdu-Session correspond to the same SDAP entity as specified in TS 37.324 [24].
SDAP-Config information element
-- ASN1START
-- TAG-SDAP-CONFIG-START

SDAP-Config ::=                     SEQUENCE {
    pdu-Session                         PDU-SessionID,
    sdap-HeaderDL                       ENUMERATED {present, absent},
    sdap-HeaderUL                       ENUMERATED {present, absent},
    defaultDRB                          BOOLEAN,
    mappedQoS-FlowsToAdd                SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxNrofQFIs)) OF QFI                                 OPTIONAL, -- Need N
    mappedQoS-FlowsToRelease            SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxNrofQFIs)) OF QFI                                 OPTIONAL, -- Need N
    ...
}

-- TAG-SDAP-CONFIG-STOP
-- ASN1STOP



–	SearchSpace
The IE SearchSpace defines how/where to search for PDCCH candidates. Each search space is associated with one ControlResourceSet. For a scheduled SCell in the case of cross carrier scheduling, except for nrofCandidates, all the optional fields are absent (regardless of their presence conditions). For a scheduled SpCell in the case of the cross carrier scheduling, if the search space is linked to another search space in the scheduling SCell, all the optional fields of this search space in the scheduled SpCell are absent (regardless of their presence conditions) except for nrofCandidates.
SearchSpace information element
-- ASN1START
-- TAG-SEARCHSPACE-START

SearchSpace ::=                         SEQUENCE {
    searchSpaceId                           SearchSpaceId,
    controlResourceSetId                    ControlResourceSetId                                        OPTIONAL,   -- Cond SetupOnly
    monitoringSlotPeriodicityAndOffset      CHOICE {
        sl1                                     NULL,
        sl2                                     INTEGER (0..1),
        sl4                                     INTEGER (0..3),
        sl5                                     INTEGER (0..4),
        sl8                                     INTEGER (0..7),
        sl10                                    INTEGER (0..9),
        sl16                                    INTEGER (0..15),
        sl20                                    INTEGER (0..19),
        sl40                                    INTEGER (0..39),
        sl80                                    INTEGER (0..79),
        sl160                                   INTEGER (0..159),
        sl320                                   INTEGER (0..319),
        sl640                                   INTEGER (0..639),
        sl1280                                  INTEGER (0..1279),
        sl2560                                  INTEGER (0..2559)
    }                                                                                                   OPTIONAL,   -- Cond Setup4
    duration                                INTEGER (2..2559)                                           OPTIONAL,   -- Need S
    monitoringSymbolsWithinSlot             BIT STRING (SIZE (14))                                      OPTIONAL,   -- Cond Setup
    nrofCandidates                          SEQUENCE {
        aggregationLevel1                       ENUMERATED {n0, n1, n2, n3, n4, n5, n6, n8},
        aggregationLevel2                       ENUMERATED {n0, n1, n2, n3, n4, n5, n6, n8},
        aggregationLevel4                       ENUMERATED {n0, n1, n2, n3, n4, n5, n6, n8},
        aggregationLevel8                       ENUMERATED {n0, n1, n2, n3, n4, n5, n6, n8},
        aggregationLevel16                      ENUMERATED {n0, n1, n2, n3, n4, n5, n6, n8}
    }                                                                                                   OPTIONAL,   -- Cond Setup
    searchSpaceType                         CHOICE {
        common                                  SEQUENCE {
            dci-Format0-0-AndFormat1-0              SEQUENCE {
                ...
            }                                                                                           OPTIONAL,   -- Need R
            dci-Format2-0                           SEQUENCE {
                nrofCandidates-SFI                      SEQUENCE {
                    aggregationLevel1                       ENUMERATED {n1, n2}                         OPTIONAL,   -- Need R
                    aggregationLevel2                       ENUMERATED {n1, n2}                         OPTIONAL,   -- Need R
                    aggregationLevel4                       ENUMERATED {n1, n2}                         OPTIONAL,   -- Need R
                    aggregationLevel8                       ENUMERATED {n1, n2}                         OPTIONAL,   -- Need R
                    aggregationLevel16                      ENUMERATED {n1, n2}                         OPTIONAL    -- Need R
                },
                ...
            }                                                                                           OPTIONAL,   -- Need R
            dci-Format2-1                           SEQUENCE {
                ...
            }                                                                                           OPTIONAL,   -- Need R
            dci-Format2-2                           SEQUENCE {
                ...
            }                                                                                           OPTIONAL,   -- Need R
            dci-Format2-3                           SEQUENCE {
                dummy1                                  ENUMERATED {sl1, sl2, sl4, sl5, sl8, sl10, sl16, sl20}  OPTIONAL,   -- Cond Setup
                dummy2                                  ENUMERATED {n1, n2},
                ...
            }                                                                                           OPTIONAL    -- Need R
        },
        ue-Specific                                 SEQUENCE {
            dci-Formats                                 ENUMERATED {formats0-0-And-1-0, formats0-1-And-1-1},
            ...,
            [[
            dci-Formats-MT-r16                   ENUMERATED {formats2-5}                                OPTIONAL,    -- Need R
            dci-FormatsSL-r16                    ENUMERATED {formats0-0-And-1-0, formats0-1-And-1-1, formats3-0, formats3-1,
                                                             formats3-0-And-3-1}                        OPTIONAL,    -- Need R
            dci-FormatsExt-r16                   ENUMERATED {formats0-2-And-1-2, formats0-1-And-1-1And-0-2-And-1-2}
                                                                                                        OPTIONAL     -- Need R
            ]],
            [[
            dci-FormatsNCR-r18                   ENUMERATED {formats2-8}                                OPTIONAL,    -- Need R
            dci-FormatsSL-PRS-r18                ENUMERATED {formats3-2, formats3-0-And-3-2, formats3-0-And-3-1-And-3-2,
                                                             formats3-1-And-3-2}                        OPTIONAL     -- Need R
            ]]
        }
    }                                                                                                   OPTIONAL    -- Cond Setup2
}

SearchSpaceExt-r16 ::=                   SEQUENCE {
    controlResourceSetId-r16                ControlResourceSetId-r16                                    OPTIONAL,   -- Cond SetupOnly2
    searchSpaceType-r16                     SEQUENCE {
        common-r16                              SEQUENCE {
            dci-Format2-4-r16                       SEQUENCE {
                nrofCandidates-CI-r16                   SEQUENCE {
                    aggregationLevel1-r16                   ENUMERATED {n1, n2}                         OPTIONAL,   -- Need R
                    aggregationLevel2-r16                   ENUMERATED {n1, n2}                         OPTIONAL,   -- Need R
                    aggregationLevel4-r16                   ENUMERATED {n1, n2}                         OPTIONAL,   -- Need R
                    aggregationLevel8-r16                   ENUMERATED {n1, n2}                         OPTIONAL,   -- Need R
                    aggregationLevel16-r16                  ENUMERATED {n1, n2}                         OPTIONAL    -- Need R
                },
                ...
            }                                                                                           OPTIONAL,   -- Need R
            dci-Format2-5-r16                      SEQUENCE {
                nrofCandidates-IAB-r16                  SEQUENCE {
                    aggregationLevel1-r16                   ENUMERATED {n1, n2}                         OPTIONAL,   -- Need R
                    aggregationLevel2-r16                   ENUMERATED {n1, n2}                         OPTIONAL,   -- Need R
                    aggregationLevel4-r16                   ENUMERATED {n1, n2}                         OPTIONAL,   -- Need R
                    aggregationLevel8-r16                   ENUMERATED {n1, n2}                         OPTIONAL,   -- Need R
                    aggregationLevel16-r16                  ENUMERATED {n1, n2}                         OPTIONAL    -- Need R
                },
                ...
            }                                                                                           OPTIONAL,   -- Need R
            dci-Format2-6-r16                       SEQUENCE {
                ...
            }                                                                                           OPTIONAL,   -- Need R
            ...
        }
    }                                                                                                   OPTIONAL,    -- Cond Setup3
    searchSpaceGroupIdList-r16                      SEQUENCE (SIZE (1.. 2)) OF INTEGER (0..1)           OPTIONAL,    -- Need R
    freqMonitorLocations-r16                        BIT STRING (SIZE (5))                               OPTIONAL     -- Need R
}

SearchSpaceExt-v1700 ::=            SEQUENCE {
    monitoringSlotPeriodicityAndOffset-v1710 CHOICE {
        sl32                                     INTEGER (0..31),
        sl64                                     INTEGER (0..63),
        sl128                                    INTEGER (0..127),
        sl5120                                   INTEGER (0..5119),
        sl10240                                  INTEGER (0..10239),
        sl20480                                  INTEGER (0..20479)
    }                                                                                                   OPTIONAL,   -- Cond Setup5
    monitoringSlotsWithinSlotGroup-r17       CHOICE {
        slotGroupLength4-r17                     BIT STRING (SIZE (4)),
        slotGroupLength8-r17                     BIT STRING (SIZE (8))
    }                                                                                                   OPTIONAL,   -- Need R
    duration-r17                             INTEGER (4..20476)                                         OPTIONAL,   -- Need R

    searchSpaceType-r17             SEQUENCE{
        common-r17                      SEQUENCE {
            dci-Format4-0-r17               SEQUENCE {
                ...
            }                                                                                           OPTIONAL,   -- Need R
            dci-Format4-1-r17               SEQUENCE {
                ...
            }                                                                                           OPTIONAL,   -- Need R
            dci-Format4-2-r17               SEQUENCE {
                ...
            }                                                                                           OPTIONAL,   -- Need R
            dci-Format4-1-AndFormat4-2-r17  SEQUENCE {
                ...
            }                                                                                           OPTIONAL,   -- Need R
            dci-Format2-7-r17               SEQUENCE {
                nrofCandidates-PEI-r17          SEQUENCE {
                    aggregationLevel4-r17       ENUMERATED {n0, n1, n2, n3, n4}                         OPTIONAL,   -- Need R
                    aggregationLevel8-r17       ENUMERATED {n0, n1, n2}                                 OPTIONAL,   -- Need R
                    aggregationLevel16-r17      ENUMERATED {n0, n1}                                     OPTIONAL    -- Need R
                },
                ...
            }                                                                                           OPTIONAL    -- Need R
        }
    }                                                                                                   OPTIONAL,   -- Need R
    searchSpaceGroupIdList-r17          SEQUENCE (SIZE (1.. 3)) OF INTEGER (0.. maxNrofSearchSpaceGroups-1-r17)  OPTIONAL,  -- Cond DedicatedOnly
    searchSpaceLinkingId-r17            INTEGER (0..maxNrofSearchSpacesLinks-1-r17)                     OPTIONAL    -- Cond DedicatedOnly
}

SearchSpaceExt-v1800 ::=            SEQUENCE {
    searchSpaceType-r18                 CHOICE {
        common-r18                          SEQUENCE {
            dci-Format2-9-r18                   SEQUENCE {
                ...
            }                                                                                           OPTIONAL,   -- Need R
            ...
        },
        ue-Specific-r18                     SEQUENCE {
            dci-FormatsMC-r18                   ENUMERATED {formats0-3, formats1-3, formats0-3-And-1-3} OPTIONAL,   -- Need R
            ...
        }
    }                                                                                                   OPTIONAL    -- Need R
}

-- TAG-SEARCHSPACE-STOP
-- ASN1STOP





–	SearchSpaceId
The IE SearchSpaceId is used to identify Search Spaces. The ID space is used across the BWPs of a Serving Cell. The search space with the SearchSpaceId = 0 identifies the search space configured via PBCH (MIB) and in ServingCellConfigCommon (searchSpaceZero). The number of Search Spaces per BWP is limited to 10 including the common and UE specific Search Spaces.
SearchSpaceId information element
-- ASN1START
-- TAG-SEARCHSPACEID-START

SearchSpaceId ::=                   INTEGER (0..maxNrofSearchSpaces-1)

-- TAG-SEARCHSPACEID-STOP
-- ASN1STOP

–	SearchSpaceZero
The IE SearchSpaceZero is used to configure SearchSpace#0 of the initial BWP (see TS 38.213 [13], clause 13).
SearchSpaceZero information element
-- ASN1START
-- TAG-SEARCHSPACEZERO-START

SearchSpaceZero ::=                 INTEGER (0..15)

-- TAG-SEARCHSPACEZERO-STOP
-- ASN1STOP

–	SecurityAlgorithmConfig
The IE SecurityAlgorithmConfig is used to configure AS integrity protection algorithm and AS ciphering algorithm for SRBs and DRBs.
SecurityAlgorithmConfig information element
-- ASN1START
-- TAG-SECURITYALGORITHMCONFIG-START

SecurityAlgorithmConfig ::=         SEQUENCE {
    cipheringAlgorithm                  CipheringAlgorithm,
    integrityProtAlgorithm              IntegrityProtAlgorithm          OPTIONAL,   -- Need R
    ...
}

IntegrityProtAlgorithm ::=          ENUMERATED {
                                        nia0, nia1, nia2, nia3, spare4, spare3,
                                        spare2, spare1, ...}

CipheringAlgorithm ::=              ENUMERATED {
                                        nea0, nea1, nea2, nea3, spare4, spare3,
                                        spare2, spare1, ...}

-- TAG-SECURITYALGORITHMCONFIG-STOP
-- ASN1STOP



–	SelectedPSCellForCHO-WithSCG
The IE SelectedPSCellForCHO-WithSCG is used to indicate the information of the selected target PSCell to target MN at execution of a conditional reconfiguration for CHO with candidate SCG(s).
SelectedPSCellForCHO-WithSCG information element
-- ASN1START
-- TAG-SELECTEDPSCELLFORCHO-WITHSCG-START

SelectedPSCellForCHO-WithSCG-r18 ::= SEQUENCE {
    ssbFrequency-r18                     ARFCN-ValueNR,
    physCellId-r18                       PhysCellId
}

-- TAG-SELECTEDPSCELLFORCHO-WITHSCG-STOP
-- ASN1STOP

–	SemiStaticChannelAccessConfig
The IE SemiStaticChannelAccessConfig is used to configure channel access parameters when the network is operating in semi-static channel access mode (see clause 4.3 in TS 37.213 [48].
SemiStaticChannelAccessConfig information element
-- ASN1START
-- TAG-SEMISTATICCHANNELACCESSCONFIG-START

SemiStaticChannelAccessConfig-r16 ::=    SEQUENCE {
    period-r16                               ENUMERATED {ms1, ms2, ms2dot5, ms4, ms5, ms10}
}

-- TAG-SEMISTATICCHANNELACCESSCONFIG-STOP
-- ASN1STOP



–	SemiStaticChannelAccessConfigUE
The IE SemiStaticChannelAccessConfigUE is used to configure channel access parameters for UE initiated semi-static channel access.
SemiStaticChannelAccessConfigUE information element
-- ASN1START
-- TAG-SEMISTATICCHANNELACCESSCONFIGUE-START

SemiStaticChannelAccessConfigUE-r17 ::=    SEQUENCE {
    periodUE-r17                               ENUMERATED {ms1, ms2, ms2dot5, ms4, ms5, ms10, spare2, spare1},
    offsetUE-r17                               INTEGER (0..559)
}

-- TAG-SEMISTATICCHANNELACCESSCONFIGUE-STOP
-- ASN1STOP



–	Sensor-LocationInfo
The IE Sensor-LocationInfo is used by the UE to provide sensor information.
Sensor-LocationInfo information element
-- ASN1START
-- TAG-SENSORLOCATIONINFO-START

Sensor-LocationInfo-r16 ::= SEQUENCE {
    sensor-MeasurementInformation-r16    OCTET STRING    OPTIONAL,
    sensor-MotionInformation-r16         OCTET STRING    OPTIONAL,
    ...
}

-- TAG-SENSORLOCATIONINFO-STOP
-- ASN1STOP



–	ServingCellAndBWP-Id
The IE ServingCellAndBWP-Id is used to indicate a serving cell and an uplink or a downlink BWP.
ServingCellAndBWP-Id information element
-- ASN1START
-- TAG-SERVINGCELLANDBWP-ID-START

ServingCellAndBWP-Id-r17 ::= SEQUENCE {
    servingcell-r17              ServCellIndex,
    bwp-r17                      BWP-Id
}

-- TAG-SERVINGCELLANDBWP-ID-STOP
-- ASN1STOP

–	ServCellIndex
The IE ServCellIndex concerns a short identity, used to uniquely identify a serving cell (i.e. the PCell, the PSCell or an SCell) across the cell groups. Value 0 applies for the PCell, while the SCellIndex that has previously been assigned applies for SCells.
ServCellIndex information element
-- ASN1START
-- TAG-SERVCELLINDEX-START

ServCellIndex ::=                   INTEGER (0..maxNrofServingCells-1)

-- TAG-SERVCELLINDEX-STOP
-- ASN1STOP

–	ServingCellConfig
The IE ServingCellConfig is used to configure (add or modify) the UE with a serving cell, which may be the SpCell or an SCell of an MCG or SCG. The parameters herein are mostly UE specific but partly also cell specific (e.g. in additionally configured bandwidth parts). Reconfiguration between a PUCCH and PUCCHless SCell is only supported using an SCell release and add.
ServingCellConfig information element
-- ASN1START
-- TAG-SERVINGCELLCONFIG-START

ServingCellConfig ::=               SEQUENCE {
    tdd-UL-DL-ConfigurationDedicated    TDD-UL-DL-ConfigDedicated                                                OPTIONAL,   -- Cond TDD
    initialDownlinkBWP                  BWP-DownlinkDedicated                                                    OPTIONAL,   -- Need M
    downlinkBWP-ToReleaseList           SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxNrofBWPs)) OF BWP-Id                               OPTIONAL,   -- Need N
    downlinkBWP-ToAddModList            SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxNrofBWPs)) OF BWP-Downlink                         OPTIONAL,   -- Need N
    firstActiveDownlinkBWP-Id           BWP-Id                                                                   OPTIONAL,   -- Cond SyncAndCellAdd
    bwp-InactivityTimer                 ENUMERATED {ms2, ms3, ms4, ms5, ms6, ms8, ms10, ms20, ms30,
                                                    ms40,ms50, ms60, ms80,ms100, ms200,ms300, ms500,
                                                    ms750, ms1280, ms1920, ms2560, spare10, spare9, spare8,
                                                    spare7, spare6, spare5, spare4, spare3, spare2, spare1 }    OPTIONAL,   --Need R
    defaultDownlinkBWP-Id               BWP-Id                                                                  OPTIONAL,   -- Need S
    uplinkConfig                        UplinkConfig                                                            OPTIONAL,   -- Need M
    supplementaryUplink                 UplinkConfig                                                            OPTIONAL,   -- Need M
    pdcch-ServingCellConfig             SetupRelease { PDCCH-ServingCellConfig }                                OPTIONAL,   -- Need M
    pdsch-ServingCellConfig             SetupRelease { PDSCH-ServingCellConfig }                                OPTIONAL,   -- Need M
    csi-MeasConfig                      SetupRelease { CSI-MeasConfig }                                         OPTIONAL,   -- Need M
    sCellDeactivationTimer              ENUMERATED {ms20, ms40, ms80, ms160, ms200, ms240,
                                                    ms320, ms400, ms480, ms520, ms640, ms720,
                                                    ms840, ms1280, spare2,spare1}       OPTIONAL,   -- Cond ServingCellWithoutPUCCH
    crossCarrierSchedulingConfig        CrossCarrierSchedulingConfig                                            OPTIONAL,   -- Need M
    tag-Id                              TAG-Id,
    dummy1                              ENUMERATED {enabled}                                                    OPTIONAL,   -- Need R
    pathlossReferenceLinking            ENUMERATED {spCell, sCell}                                              OPTIONAL,   -- Cond SCellOnly
    servingCellMO                       MeasObjectId                                                            OPTIONAL,   -- Cond MeasObject
    ...,
    [[
    lte-CRS-ToMatchAround               SetupRelease { RateMatchPatternLTE-CRS }                                OPTIONAL,   -- Need M
    rateMatchPatternToAddModList        SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxNrofRateMatchPatterns)) OF RateMatchPattern       OPTIONAL,   -- Need N
    rateMatchPatternToReleaseList       SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxNrofRateMatchPatterns)) OF RateMatchPatternId     OPTIONAL,   -- Need N
    downlinkChannelBW-PerSCS-List       SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxSCSs)) OF SCS-SpecificCarrier                     OPTIONAL    -- Need S
    ]],
    [[
    supplementaryUplinkRelease-r16      ENUMERATED {true}                                                       OPTIONAL,   -- Need N
    tdd-UL-DL-ConfigurationDedicated-IAB-MT-r16    TDD-UL-DL-ConfigDedicated-IAB-MT-r16                         OPTIONAL,   -- Cond TDD_IAB
    dormantBWP-Config-r16               SetupRelease { DormantBWP-Config-r16 }                                  OPTIONAL,   -- Need M
    ca-SlotOffset-r16                   CHOICE {
        refSCS15kHz                         INTEGER (-2..2),
        refSCS30KHz                         INTEGER (-5..5),
        refSCS60KHz                         INTEGER (-10..10),
        refSCS120KHz                        INTEGER (-20..20)
    }                                                                                                           OPTIONAL,   -- Cond AsyncCA
    dummy2                              SetupRelease { DummyJ }                                                 OPTIONAL,   -- Need M
    intraCellGuardBandsDL-List-r16      SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxSCSs)) OF IntraCellGuardBandsPerSCS-r16           OPTIONAL,   -- Need S
    intraCellGuardBandsUL-List-r16      SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxSCSs)) OF IntraCellGuardBandsPerSCS-r16           OPTIONAL,   -- Need S
    csi-RS-ValidationWithDCI-r16        ENUMERATED {enabled}                                                    OPTIONAL,   -- Need R
    lte-CRS-PatternList1-r16            SetupRelease { LTE-CRS-PatternList-r16 }                                OPTIONAL,   -- Need M
    lte-CRS-PatternList2-r16            SetupRelease { LTE-CRS-PatternList-r16 }                                OPTIONAL,   -- Need M
    crs-RateMatch-PerCORESETPoolIndex-r16  ENUMERATED {enabled}                                                 OPTIONAL,   -- Need R
    enableTwoDefaultTCI-States-r16      ENUMERATED {enabled}                                                    OPTIONAL,   -- Need R
    enableDefaultTCI-StatePerCoresetPoolIndex-r16 ENUMERATED {enabled}                                          OPTIONAL,   -- Need R
    enableBeamSwitchTiming-r16          ENUMERATED {true}                                                       OPTIONAL,   -- Need R
    cbg-TxDiffTBsProcessingType1-r16    ENUMERATED {enabled}                                                    OPTIONAL,   -- Need R
    cbg-TxDiffTBsProcessingType2-r16    ENUMERATED {enabled}                                                    OPTIONAL    -- Need R
    ]],
    [[
    directionalCollisionHandling-r16    ENUMERATED {enabled}                                                    OPTIONAL,   -- Need R
    channelAccessConfig-r16             SetupRelease { ChannelAccessConfig-r16 }                                OPTIONAL    -- Need M
    ]],
    [[
    nr-dl-PRS-PDC-Info-r17                 SetupRelease {NR-DL-PRS-PDC-Info-r17}                                OPTIONAL,   -- Need M
    semiStaticChannelAccessConfigUE-r17    SetupRelease {SemiStaticChannelAccessConfigUE-r17}                   OPTIONAL,   -- Need M
    mimoParam-r17                       SetupRelease {MIMOParam-r17}                                            OPTIONAL,   -- Need M
    channelAccessMode2-r17              ENUMERATED {enabled}                                                    OPTIONAL,   -- Need R
    timeDomainHARQ-BundlingType1-r17    ENUMERATED {enabled}                                                    OPTIONAL,   -- Need R
    nrofHARQ-BundlingGroups-r17         ENUMERATED {n1, n2, n4}                                                 OPTIONAL,   -- Need R
    fdmed-ReceptionMulticast-r17        ENUMERATED {true}                                                       OPTIONAL,   -- Need R
    moreThanOneNackOnlyMode-r17         ENUMERATED {mode2}                                                      OPTIONAL,   -- Need S
    tci-ActivatedConfig-r17             TCI-ActivatedConfig-r17                                                 OPTIONAL,   -- Cond TCI_ActivatedConfig
    directionalCollisionHandling-DC-r17 ENUMERATED {enabled}                                                    OPTIONAL,   -- Need R
    lte-NeighCellsCRS-AssistInfoList-r17  SetupRelease { LTE-NeighCellsCRS-AssistInfoList-r17 }                 OPTIONAL    -- Need M
    ]],
    [[
    lte-NeighCellsCRS-Assumptions-r17   ENUMERATED {false}                                                      OPTIONAL    -- Need R
    ]],
    [[
    crossCarrierSchedulingConfigRelease-r17 ENUMERATED {true}                                                   OPTIONAL    -- Need N
    ]],
    [[
    multiPDSCH-PerSlotType1-CB-r17      ENUMERATED {enabled, disabled}                                          OPTIONAL    -- Need R
    ]],
    [[
    lte-CRS-PatternList3-r18            SetupRelease { LTE-CRS-PatternList-r16 }                                OPTIONAL,   -- Need M
    lte-CRS-PatternList4-r18            SetupRelease { LTE-CRS-PatternList-r16 }                                OPTIONAL,   -- Need M
    pdcch-CandidateReceptionWithCRS-Overlap-r18  ENUMERATED {enabled}                                           OPTIONAL,   -- Need R
    cjt-Scheme-PDSCH-r18                ENUMERATED {cjtSchemeA, cjtSchemeB}                                     OPTIONAL,   -- Need R
    tag2-r18                            Tag2-r18                                                                OPTIONAL,   -- Need R
    cellDTX-DRX-Config-r18              SetupRelease { CellDTX-DRX-Config-r18 }                                 OPTIONAL,   -- Need M
    positionInDCI-cellDTRX-r18          INTEGER (0..maxDCI-2-9-Size-1-r18)                                      OPTIONAL,   -- Need R
    cellDTX-DRX-L1activation-r18        ENUMERATED {enabled}                                                    OPTIONAL,   -- Need R
    mc-DCI-SetOfCellsToAddModList-r18   SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxNrofSetsOfCells-r18)) OF MC-DCI-SetOfCells-r18    OPTIONAL,   -- Need N
    mc-DCI-SetOfCellsToReleaseList-r18  SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxNrofSetsOfCells-r18)) OF SetOfCellsId-r18         OPTIONAL    -- Need N
    ]],
    [[
    mimoParam-v1850                     SetupRelease {MIMOParam-v1850}                                          OPTIONAL    -- Need M
    ]]
}

Tag2-r18 ::=                        SEQUENCE {
    tag2-Id-r18                         TAG-Id,
    tag2-flag-r18                       BOOLEAN,
    n-TimingAdvanceOffset2-r18          ENUMERATED { n0, n25600, n39936, spare1 }                           OPTIONAL    -- Need S
}

UplinkConfig ::=                    SEQUENCE {
    initialUplinkBWP                    BWP-UplinkDedicated                                                     OPTIONAL,   -- Need M
    uplinkBWP-ToReleaseList             SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxNrofBWPs)) OF BWP-Id                              OPTIONAL,   -- Need N
    uplinkBWP-ToAddModList              SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxNrofBWPs)) OF BWP-Uplink                          OPTIONAL,   -- Need N
    firstActiveUplinkBWP-Id             BWP-Id                                                                  OPTIONAL,   -- Cond SyncAndCellAdd
    pusch-ServingCellConfig             SetupRelease { PUSCH-ServingCellConfig }                                OPTIONAL,   -- Need M
    carrierSwitching                    SetupRelease { SRS-CarrierSwitching }                                   OPTIONAL,   -- Need M
    ...,
    [[
    powerBoostPi2BPSK                   BOOLEAN                                                                 OPTIONAL,   -- Need M
    uplinkChannelBW-PerSCS-List         SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxSCSs)) OF SCS-SpecificCarrier                     OPTIONAL    -- Need S
    ]],
    [[
    enablePL-RS-UpdateForPUSCH-SRS-r16  ENUMERATED {enabled}                                                    OPTIONAL,   -- Need R
    enableDefaultBeamPL-ForPUSCH0-0-r16 ENUMERATED {enabled}                                                    OPTIONAL,   -- Need R
    enableDefaultBeamPL-ForPUCCH-r16    ENUMERATED {enabled}                                                    OPTIONAL,   -- Need R
    enableDefaultBeamPL-ForSRS-r16      ENUMERATED {enabled}                                                    OPTIONAL,   -- Need R
    uplinkTxSwitching-r16               SetupRelease { UplinkTxSwitching-r16 }                                  OPTIONAL,   -- Need M
    mpr-PowerBoost-FR2-r16              ENUMERATED {true}                                                       OPTIONAL    -- Need R
    ]],
    [[
    srs-PosTx-Hopping-r18               SetupRelease { SRS-PosTx-Hopping-r18 }                                  OPTIONAL,   -- Need M
    enablePL-RS-UpdateForType1CG-PUSCH-r18  ENUMERATED {enabled}                                                OPTIONAL,   -- Need R
    powerBoostPi2BPSK-r18               BOOLEAN                                                                 OPTIONAL,   -- Need R
    powerBoostQPSK-r18                  BOOLEAN                                                                 OPTIONAL    -- Need R
    ]]
}

DummyJ ::=                          SEQUENCE {
    maxEnergyDetectionThreshold-r16         INTEGER(-85..-52),
    energyDetectionThresholdOffset-r16      INTEGER (-20..-13),
    ul-toDL-COT-SharingED-Threshold-r16     INTEGER (-85..-52)                                                  OPTIONAL,   -- Need R
    absenceOfAnyOtherTechnology-r16         ENUMERATED {true}                                                   OPTIONAL    -- Need R
}

ChannelAccessConfig-r16 ::=         SEQUENCE {
    energyDetectionConfig-r16           CHOICE {
        maxEnergyDetectionThreshold-r16         INTEGER (-85..-52),
        energyDetectionThresholdOffset-r16      INTEGER (-13..20)
    }                                                                                                           OPTIONAL,   -- Need R
    ul-toDL-COT-SharingED-Threshold-r16         INTEGER (-85..-52)                                              OPTIONAL,   -- Need R
    absenceOfAnyOtherTechnology-r16             ENUMERATED {true}                                               OPTIONAL    -- Need R
}

IntraCellGuardBandsPerSCS-r16 ::=      SEQUENCE {
    guardBandSCS-r16                       SubcarrierSpacing,
    intraCellGuardBands-r16                SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..4)) OF GuardBand-r16
}

GuardBand-r16 ::=                      SEQUENCE {
     startCRB-r16                          INTEGER (0..274),
     nrofCRBs-r16                          INTEGER (0..15)
}

DormancyGroupID-r16 ::=         INTEGER (0..4)

DormantBWP-Config-r16::=               SEQUENCE {
    dormantBWP-Id-r16                      BWP-Id                                                           OPTIONAL,   -- Need M
    withinActiveTimeConfig-r16             SetupRelease { WithinActiveTimeConfig-r16 }                      OPTIONAL,   -- Need M
    outsideActiveTimeConfig-r16            SetupRelease { OutsideActiveTimeConfig-r16 }                     OPTIONAL    -- Need M
}

WithinActiveTimeConfig-r16 ::=         SEQUENCE {
   firstWithinActiveTimeBWP-Id-r16         BWP-Id                                                           OPTIONAL,   -- Need M
   dormancyGroupWithinActiveTime-r16       DormancyGroupID-r16                                              OPTIONAL    -- Need R
}

OutsideActiveTimeConfig-r16 ::=        SEQUENCE {
   firstOutsideActiveTimeBWP-Id-r16        BWP-Id                                                           OPTIONAL,   -- Need M
   dormancyGroupOutsideActiveTime-r16      DormancyGroupID-r16                                              OPTIONAL    -- Need R
}

UplinkTxSwitching-r16 ::=              SEQUENCE {
    uplinkTxSwitchingPeriodLocation-r16    BOOLEAN,
    uplinkTxSwitchingCarrier-r16           ENUMERATED {carrier1, carrier2}
}

MIMOParam-r17 ::= SEQUENCE {
    additionalPCI-ToAddModList-r17     SEQUENCE (SIZE(1..maxNrofAdditionalPCI-r17)) OF SSB-MTC-AdditionalPCI-r17  OPTIONAL,   -- Need N
    additionalPCI-ToReleaseList-r17    SEQUENCE (SIZE(1..maxNrofAdditionalPCI-r17)) OF AdditionalPCIIndex-r17     OPTIONAL,   -- Need N
    unifiedTCI-StateType-r17           ENUMERATED {separate, joint}                                         OPTIONAL,   -- Need R
    uplink-PowerControlToAddModList-r17  SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxUL-TCI-r17)) OF Uplink-powerControl-r17      OPTIONAL,   -- Need N
    uplink-PowerControlToReleaseList-r17 SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxUL-TCI-r17)) OF Uplink-powerControlId-r17    OPTIONAL,   -- Need N
    sfnSchemePDCCH-r17                 ENUMERATED {sfnSchemeA,sfnSchemeB}                                   OPTIONAL,   -- Need R
    sfnSchemePDSCH-r17                 ENUMERATED {sfnSchemeA,sfnSchemeB}                                   OPTIONAL    -- Need R
}

MIMOParam-v1850 ::= SEQUENCE {
    additionalTDDConfig-perPCI-ToAddModList-r18   SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxNrofAdditionalPCI-r17)) OF  AdditionalTDDConfig-perPCI-ToAddMod-r18
                                                                                                        OPTIONAL, -- Cond 2TA-TDD-Only
    additionalTDDConfig-perPCI-ToReleaseList-r18  SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxNrofAdditionalPCI-r17)) OF AdditionalPCIIndex-r17
                                                                                                        OPTIONAL  -- Need N
}

AdditionalTDDConfig-perPCI-ToAddMod-r18 ::=       SEQUENCE {
    additionalTDDConfig-Index-r18                     AdditionalPCIIndex-r17,
    tdd-UL-DL-ConfigurationCommon-r18                 TDD-UL-DL-ConfigCommon
}

MC-DCI-SetOfCells-r18 ::=          SEQUENCE {
    setOfCellsId-r18                   SetOfCellsId-r18,
    nCI-Value-r18                      INTEGER (0..7),
    scheduledCellListDCI-1-3-r18       SEQUENCE (SIZE (2..maxNrofCellsInSet-r18)) OF ServCellIndex          OPTIONAL,   -- Need R
    scheduledCellListDCI-0-3-r18       SEQUENCE (SIZE (2..maxNrofCellsInSet-r18)) OF ServCellIndex          OPTIONAL,   -- Need R
    scheduledCellComboListDCI-1-3-r18  SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxNrofCellCombos-r18)) OF ScheduledCellCombo-r18 OPTIONAL,   -- Need R
    scheduledCellComboListDCI-0-3-r18  SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxNrofCellCombos-r18)) OF ScheduledCellCombo-r18 OPTIONAL,   -- Need R
    antennaPortsDCI1-3-r18             ENUMERATED {type1a, type2}                                           OPTIONAL, -- Cond TypeDCI1-3
    antennaPortsDCI0-3-r18             ENUMERATED {type1a, type2}                                           OPTIONAL, -- Cond TypeDCI0-3
    tpmi-DCI0-3-r18                    ENUMERATED {type1a, type2}                                           OPTIONAL, -- Cond TypeDCI0-3
    sri-DCI0-3-r18                     ENUMERATED {type1a, type2}                                           OPTIONAL, -- Cond TypeDCI0-3
    priorityIndicatorDCI-1-3-r18       ENUMERATED {enabled}                                                 OPTIONAL,   -- Need R
    priorityIndicatorDCI-0-3-r18       ENUMERATED {enabled}                                                 OPTIONAL,   -- Need R
    dormancyDCI-1-3-r18                ENUMERATED {enabled}                                                 OPTIONAL,   -- Need R
    dormancyDCI-0-3-r18                ENUMERATED {enabled}                                                 OPTIONAL,   -- Need R
    pdcchMonAdaptDCI-1-3-r18           ENUMERATED {enabled}                                                 OPTIONAL,   -- Need R
    pdcchMonAdaptDCI-0-3-r18           ENUMERATED {enabled}                                                 OPTIONAL,   -- Need R
    minimumSchedulingOffsetK0DCI-1-3-r18        ENUMERATED {enabled}                                        OPTIONAL,   -- Need R
    minimumSchedulingOffsetK0DCI-0-3-r18        ENUMERATED {enabled}                                        OPTIONAL,   -- Need R
    pdsch-HARQ-ACK-OneShotFeedbackDCI-1-3-r18   ENUMERATED {enabled}                                        OPTIONAL,   -- Need R
    pdsch-HARQ-ACK-enhType3DCI-1-3-r18          ENUMERATED {enabled}                                        OPTIONAL,   -- Need R
    pdsch-HARQ-ACK-enhType3DCIfieldDCI-1-3-r18  ENUMERATED {enabled}                                        OPTIONAL,   -- Need R
    pdsch-HARQ-ACK-retxDCI-1-3-r18     ENUMERATED {enabled}                                                 OPTIONAL,   -- Need R
    pucch-sSCellDynDCI-1-3-r18         ENUMERATED {enabled}                                                 OPTIONAL,   -- Need R
    tdra-FieldIndexListDCI-1-3-r18     SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..32)) OF TDRA-FieldIndexDCI-1-3-r18                OPTIONAL,   -- Need R
    tdra-FieldIndexListDCI-0-3-r18     SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..64)) OF TDRA-FieldIndexDCI-0-3-r18                OPTIONAL,   -- Need R
    rateMatchListDCI-1-3-r18           SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..16)) OF RateMatchDCI-1-3-r18                      OPTIONAL,   -- Need R
    zp-CSI-RSListDCI-1-3-r18           SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..8)) OF ZP-CSI-DCI-1-3-r18                         OPTIONAL,   -- Need R
    tci-ListDCI-1-3-r18                SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..16)) OF TCI-DCI-1-3-r18                           OPTIONAL,   -- Need R
    srs-RequestListDCI-1-3-r18         SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..16)) OF SRS-RequestCombo-r18                      OPTIONAL,   -- Need R
    srs-OffsetListDCI-1-3-r18          SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..8)) OF SRS-OffsetCombo-r18                        OPTIONAL,   -- Need R
    srs-RequestListDCI-0-3-r18         SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..16)) OF SRS-RequestCombo-r18                      OPTIONAL,   -- Need R
    srs-OffsetListDCI-0-3-r18          SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..8)) OF SRS-OffsetCombo-r18                        OPTIONAL    -- Need R
}

SetOfCellsId-r18 ::=                   INTEGER (0..maxNrofSetsOfCells-1-r18)

ScheduledCellCombo-r18 ::=             SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxNrofCellsInSet-r18)) OF INTEGER (0..maxNrofCellsInSet-1-r18)

RateMatchDCI-1-3-r18 ::=               SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxNrofCellsInSet-r18)) OF BIT STRING (SIZE (1..2))

ZP-CSI-DCI-1-3-r18 ::=                 SEQUENCE (SIZE (1.. maxNrofCellsInSet-r18)) OF BIT STRING (SIZE (1..2))

TCI-DCI-1-3-r18 ::=                    SEQUENCE (SIZE (2.. maxNrofCellsInSet-r18)) OF BIT STRING (SIZE (3))

SRS-RequestCombo-r18 ::=               SEQUENCE (SIZE (1.. maxNrofCellsInSet-r18)) OF BIT STRING (SIZE (2..3))

SRS-OffsetCombo-r18 ::=                SEQUENCE (SIZE (1.. maxNrofCellsInSet-r18)) OF INTEGER (0..3)

TDRA-FieldIndexDCI-1-3-r18 ::=         SEQUENCE (SIZE (2.. maxNrofBWPsInSetOfCells-r18)) OF INTEGER (0..maxNrofDL-Allocations-1-r18)

TDRA-FieldIndexDCI-0-3-r18 ::=         SEQUENCE (SIZE (2.. maxNrofBWPsInSetOfCells-r18)) OF INTEGER (0..maxNrofUL-Allocations-1-r18)

-- TAG-SERVINGCELLCONFIG-STOP
-- ASN1STOP















NOTE 1:	If the dedicated part of initial UL/DL BWP configuration is absent, the initial BWP can be used but with some limitations. For example, changing to another BWP requires RRCReconfiguration since DCI format 1_0 doesn't support DCI-based switching.



–	ServingCellConfigCommon
The IE ServingCellConfigCommon is used to configure cell specific parameters of a UE's serving cell. The IE contains parameters which a UE would typically acquire from SSB, MIB or SIBs when accessing the cell from IDLE. With this IE, the network provides this information in dedicated signalling when configuring a UE with a SCells or with an additional cell group (SCG). It also provides it for SpCells (MCG and SCG) upon reconfiguration with sync.
ServingCellConfigCommon information element
-- ASN1START
-- TAG-SERVINGCELLCONFIGCOMMON-START

ServingCellConfigCommon ::=         SEQUENCE {
    physCellId                          PhysCellId                                                          OPTIONAL,   -- Cond HOAndServCellAdd,
    downlinkConfigCommon                DownlinkConfigCommon                                                OPTIONAL,   -- Cond HOAndServCellAdd
    uplinkConfigCommon                  UplinkConfigCommon                                                  OPTIONAL,   -- Need M
    supplementaryUplinkConfig           UplinkConfigCommon                                                  OPTIONAL,   -- Need S
    n-TimingAdvanceOffset               ENUMERATED { n0, n25600, n39936 }                                   OPTIONAL,   -- Need S
    ssb-PositionsInBurst                CHOICE {
        shortBitmap                         BIT STRING (SIZE (4)),
        mediumBitmap                        BIT STRING (SIZE (8)),
        longBitmap                          BIT STRING (SIZE (64))
    }                                                                                                       OPTIONAL, -- Cond AbsFreqSSB
    ssb-periodicityServingCell          ENUMERATED { ms5, ms10, ms20, ms40, ms80, ms160, spare2, spare1 }   OPTIONAL, -- Need S
    dmrs-TypeA-Position                 ENUMERATED {pos2, pos3},
    lte-CRS-ToMatchAround               SetupRelease { RateMatchPatternLTE-CRS }                            OPTIONAL, -- Need M
    rateMatchPatternToAddModList        SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxNrofRateMatchPatterns)) OF RateMatchPattern   OPTIONAL, -- Need N
    rateMatchPatternToReleaseList       SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxNrofRateMatchPatterns)) OF RateMatchPatternId OPTIONAL, -- Need N
    ssbSubcarrierSpacing                SubcarrierSpacing                                                   OPTIONAL, -- Cond HOAndServCellWithSSB
    tdd-UL-DL-ConfigurationCommon       TDD-UL-DL-ConfigCommon                                              OPTIONAL, -- Cond TDD
    ss-PBCH-BlockPower                  INTEGER (-60..50),
    ...,
    [[
    channelAccessMode-r16               CHOICE {
        dynamic                             NULL,
        semiStatic                          SemiStaticChannelAccessConfig-r16
    }                                                                                                       OPTIONAL, -- Cond SharedSpectrum
    discoveryBurstWindowLength-r16          ENUMERATED {ms0dot5, ms1, ms2, ms3, ms4, ms5}                   OPTIONAL, -- Need R
    ssb-PositionQCL-r16                     SSB-PositionQCL-Relation-r16                                    OPTIONAL, -- Cond SharedSpectrum
    highSpeedConfig-r16                     HighSpeedConfig-r16                                             OPTIONAL  -- Need R
    ]],
    [[
    highSpeedConfig-v1700               HighSpeedConfig-v1700                                               OPTIONAL, -- Need R
    channelAccessMode2-r17              ENUMERATED {enabled}                                                OPTIONAL, -- Cond SharedSpectrum2
    discoveryBurstWindowLength-r17      ENUMERATED {ms0dot125, ms0dot25, ms0dot5, ms0dot75, ms1, ms1dot25}  OPTIONAL, -- Need R
    ssb-PositionQCL-r17                 SSB-PositionQCL-Relation-r17                                        OPTIONAL, -- Cond SharedSpectrum2
    highSpeedConfigFR2-r17              HighSpeedConfigFR2-r17                                              OPTIONAL, -- Need R
    uplinkConfigCommon-v1700            UplinkConfigCommon-v1700                                            OPTIONAL, -- Need R
    ntn-Config-r17                      NTN-Config-r17                                                      OPTIONAL  -- Need R
    ]],
    [[
    featurePriorities-r17               SEQUENCE {
        redCapPriority-r17                  FeaturePriority-r17                                             OPTIONAL, -- Need R
        slicingPriority-r17                 FeaturePriority-r17                                             OPTIONAL, -- Need R
        msg3-Repetitions-Priority-r17       FeaturePriority-r17                                             OPTIONAL, -- Need R
        sdt-Priority-r17                    FeaturePriority-r17                                             OPTIONAL  -- Need R
    }                                                                                                       OPTIONAL  -- Need R
    ]],
    [[
    ra-ChannelAccess-r17            ENUMERATED {enabled}                                                OPTIONAL -- Cond SharedSpectrum2
    ]],
    [[
    featurePriorities-v1800             SEQUENCE {
        msg1-Repetitions-Priority-r18       FeaturePriority-r17                                             OPTIONAL, -- Need R
        eRedCapPriority-r18                 FeaturePriority-r17                                             OPTIONAL  -- Need R
    }                                                                                                       OPTIONAL, -- Need R
    atg-Config-r18                      ATG-Config-r18                                                      OPTIONAL   -- Need R
    ]]
}

-- TAG-SERVINGCELLCONFIGCOMMON-STOP
-- ASN1STOP





–	ServingCellConfigCommonSIB
The IE ServingCellConfigCommonSIB is used to configure cell specific parameters of a UE's serving cell in SIB1.
ServingCellConfigCommonSIB information element
-- ASN1START
-- TAG-SERVINGCELLCONFIGCOMMONSIB-START

ServingCellConfigCommonSIB ::=      SEQUENCE {
    downlinkConfigCommon                DownlinkConfigCommonSIB,
    uplinkConfigCommon                  UplinkConfigCommonSIB                                       OPTIONAL, -- Need R
    supplementaryUplink                 UplinkConfigCommonSIB                                       OPTIONAL, -- Need R
    n-TimingAdvanceOffset               ENUMERATED { n0, n25600, n39936 }                           OPTIONAL, -- Need S
    ssb-PositionsInBurst                SEQUENCE {
        inOneGroup                          BIT STRING (SIZE (8)),
        groupPresence                       BIT STRING (SIZE (8))                                   OPTIONAL  -- Cond FR2-Only
    },
    ssb-PeriodicityServingCell          ENUMERATED {ms5, ms10, ms20, ms40, ms80, ms160},
    tdd-UL-DL-ConfigurationCommon       TDD-UL-DL-ConfigCommon                                      OPTIONAL, -- Cond TDD
    ss-PBCH-BlockPower                  INTEGER (-60..50),
    ...,
    [[
    channelAccessMode-r16               CHOICE {
        dynamic                             NULL,
        semiStatic                          SemiStaticChannelAccessConfig-r16
    }                                                                                               OPTIONAL, -- Cond SharedSpectrum
    discoveryBurstWindowLength-r16      ENUMERATED {ms0dot5, ms1, ms2, ms3, ms4, ms5}               OPTIONAL, -- Need R
    highSpeedConfig-r16                 HighSpeedConfig-r16                                         OPTIONAL  -- Need R
    ]],
    [[
    channelAccessMode2-r17              ENUMERATED {enabled}                                        OPTIONAL, -- Cond SharedSpectrum2
    discoveryBurstWindowLength-v1700    ENUMERATED {ms0dot125, ms0dot25, ms0dot5, ms0dot75, ms1, ms1dot25} OPTIONAL,  -- Need R
    highSpeedConfigFR2-r17              HighSpeedConfigFR2-r17                                      OPTIONAL, -- Need R
    uplinkConfigCommon-v1700            UplinkConfigCommonSIB-v1700                                 OPTIONAL  -- Need R
    ]],
    [[
    enhancedMeasurementNGSO-r17         ENUMERATED {true}                                           OPTIONAL  -- Need R
    ]],
    [[
    ra-ChannelAccess-r17                ENUMERATED {enabled}                                        OPTIONAL  -- Cond SharedSpectrum2
    ]],
    [[
    downlinkConfigCommon-v1760          DownlinkConfigCommonSIB-v1760                               OPTIONAL, -- Need R
    uplinkConfigCommon-v1760            UplinkConfigCommonSIB-v1760                                 OPTIONAL  -- Need R
    ]]
}

-- TAG-SERVINGCELLCONFIGCOMMONSIB-STOP
-- ASN1STOP





–	ShortI-RNTI-Value
The IE ShortI-RNTI-Value is used to identify the suspended UE context of a UE in RRC_INACTIVE using fewer bits compared to I-RNTI-Value.
ShortI-RNTI-Value information element
-- ASN1START
-- TAG-SHORTI-RNTI-VALUE-START

ShortI-RNTI-Value ::=   BIT STRING (SIZE(24))

-- TAG-SHORTI-RNTI-VALUE-STOP
-- ASN1STOP

–	ShortMAC-I
The IE ShortMAC-I is used to identify and verify the UE at RRC connection re-establishment. The 16 least significant bits of the MAC-I calculated using the AS security configuration of the source PCell, as specified in 5.3.7.4.
ShortMAC-I information element
-- ASN1START
-- TAG-SHORTMAC-I-START

ShortMAC-I ::=                      BIT STRING (SIZE (16))

-- TAG-SHORTMAC-I-STOP
-- ASN1STOP

–	SINR-Range
The IE SINR-Range specifies the value range used in SINR measurements and thresholds. For measurements, integer value for SINR measurements is according to Table 10.1.16.1-1 in TS 38.133 [14]. For thresholds, the actual value is (IE value – 46) / 2 dB.
SINR-Range information element
-- ASN1START
-- TAG-SINR-RANGE-START

SINR-Range ::=                      INTEGER(0..127)

-- TAG-SINR-RANGE-STOP
-- ASN1STOP

–	SI-RequestConfig
The IE SI-RequestConfig contains configuration for Msg1 based SI request without Msg1 repetition. For the random access parameters (e.g. prach-RootSequenceIndex, msg1-SubcarrierSpacing, etc.) not configured in SI-RequestConfig, the UE applies the parameters configured in rach-ConfigCommon corresponding to the RACH resource set selected upon RACH initialization (as specified in TS 38.321 [3]), of the initial uplink BWP unless otherwise specified.
SI-RequestConfig information element
-- ASN1START
-- TAG-SI-REQUESTCONFIG-START

SI-RequestConfig ::=                SEQUENCE {
    rach-OccasionsSI                    SEQUENCE {
        rach-ConfigSI                       RACH-ConfigGeneric,
        ssb-perRACH-Occasion                ENUMERATED {oneEighth, oneFourth, oneHalf, one, two, four, eight, sixteen}
    }                                                                                                       OPTIONAL,   -- Need R
    si-RequestPeriod                    ENUMERATED {one, two, four, six, eight, ten, twelve, sixteen}       OPTIONAL,   -- Need R
    si-RequestResources                 SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxSI-Message)) OF SI-RequestResources
}

SI-RequestResources ::=             SEQUENCE {
    ra-PreambleStartIndex               INTEGER (0..63),
    ra-AssociationPeriodIndex           INTEGER (0..15)                                                     OPTIONAL,   -- Need R
    ra-ssb-OccasionMaskIndex            INTEGER (0..15)                                                     OPTIONAL    -- Need R
}

-- TAG-SI-REQUESTCONFIG-STOP
-- ASN1STOP





–	SI-RequestConfigRepetition
The IE SI-RequestConfigRepetition contains configuration for Msg1 based SI request with Msg1 repetition. For the random access parameters (e.g. prach-RootSequenceIndex, msg1-SubcarrierSpacing and msg1-RepetitionTimeOffsetROGroup, etc.) not configured in SI-RequestConfigRepetition, the UE applies the parameters configured in rach-ConfigCommon corresponding to the RACH resource set selected upon RACH initialization (as specified in TS 38.321 [3]), of the initial uplink BWP unless otherwise specified.
SI-RequestConfigRepetition information element
-- ASN1START
-- TAG-SI-REQUESTCONFIGREPETITION-START

SI-RequestConfigRepetition-r18 ::=     SEQUENCE {
    rach-OccasionsSI-r18                   SEQUENCE {
        rach-ConfigSI-r18                      RACH-ConfigGeneric,
        ssb-perRACH-Occasion-r18               ENUMERATED {oneEighth, oneFourth, oneHalf, one, two, four, eight, sixteen}
    }                                                                                                               OPTIONAL,  -- Need R
    si-RequestResourcesRepetitionNum2-r18  SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxSI-Message)) OF SI-RequestResourcesRepetition-r18  OPTIONAL,  -- Need R
    si-RequestResourcesRepetitionNum4-r18  SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxSI-Message)) OF SI-RequestResourcesRepetition-r18  OPTIONAL,  -- Need R
    si-RequestResourcesRepetitionNum8-r18  SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxSI-Message)) OF SI-RequestResourcesRepetition-r18  OPTIONAL,  -- Need R
    ...
}

SI-RequestResourcesRepetition-r18 ::=  SEQUENCE {
    ra-PreambleStartIndex-r18              INTEGER (0..63)
}

-- TAG-SI-REQUESTCONFIGREPETITION-STOP
-- ASN1STOP





–	SI-SchedulingInfo
The IE SI-SchedulingInfo contains information needed for acquisition of SI messages.
SI-SchedulingInfo information element
-- ASN1START
-- TAG-SI-SCHEDULINGINFO-START

SI-SchedulingInfo ::=               SEQUENCE {
    schedulingInfoList                  SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxSI-Message)) OF SchedulingInfo,
    si-WindowLength                     ENUMERATED {s5, s10, s20, s40, s80, s160, s320, s640, s1280, s2560-v1710, s5120-v1710 },
    si-RequestConfig                    SI-RequestConfig                                                OPTIONAL,  -- Cond MSG-1
    si-RequestConfigSUL                 SI-RequestConfig                                                OPTIONAL,  -- Cond SUL-MSG-1
    systemInformationAreaID             BIT STRING (SIZE (24))                                          OPTIONAL,  -- Need R
    ...
}

SchedulingInfo ::=                  SEQUENCE {
    si-BroadcastStatus                  ENUMERATED {broadcasting, notBroadcasting},
    si-Periodicity                      ENUMERATED {rf8, rf16, rf32, rf64, rf128, rf256, rf512},
    sib-MappingInfo                     SIB-Mapping
}

SI-SchedulingInfo-v1700 ::=         SEQUENCE {
    schedulingInfoList2-r17             SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxSI-Message)) OF SchedulingInfo2-r17,
    dummy                              SI-RequestConfig                                                 OPTIONAL
}

SI-SchedulingInfo-v1740 ::=         SEQUENCE {
    si-RequestConfigRedCap-r17          SI-RequestConfig                                                OPTIONAL   -- Cond REDCAP-MSG-1
}

SI-SchedulingInfo-v1800 ::=         SEQUENCE {
    si-RequestConfigMSG1-Repetition-r18           SI-RequestConfigRepetition-r18                        OPTIONAL,  -- Cond MSG-1
    si-RequestConfigRedCap-MSG1-Repetition-r18    SI-RequestConfigRepetition-r18                        OPTIONAL,  -- Cond REDCAP-MSG-1
    si-RequestConfigSUL-MSG1-Repetition-r18       SI-RequestConfigRepetition-r18                        OPTIONAL   -- Cond SUL-MSG-1
}

SchedulingInfo2-r17 ::=             SEQUENCE {
    si-BroadcastStatus-r17              ENUMERATED {broadcasting, notBroadcasting},
    si-WindowPosition-r17               INTEGER (1..256),
    si-Periodicity-r17                  ENUMERATED {rf8, rf16, rf32, rf64, rf128, rf256, rf512},
    sib-MappingInfo-r17                 SIB-Mapping-v1700
}

SIB-Mapping ::=                     SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxSIB)) OF SIB-TypeInfo

SIB-Mapping-v1700  ::=              SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxSIB)) OF SIB-TypeInfo-v1700

SIB-TypeInfo ::=                    SEQUENCE {
    type                                ENUMERATED {sibType2, sibType3, sibType4, sibType5, sibType6, sibType7, sibType8, sibType9,
                                                     sibType10-v1610, sibType11-v1610, sibType12-v1610, sibType13-v1610,
                                                     sibType14-v1610, spare3, spare2, spare1,... },
    valueTag                            INTEGER (0..31)                                                 OPTIONAL, -- Cond SIB-TYPE
    areaScope                           ENUMERATED {true}                                               OPTIONAL -- Need S
}

SIB-TypeInfo-v1700 ::=              SEQUENCE {
    sibType-r17                         CHOICE {
        type1-r17                           ENUMERATED {sibType15, sibType16, sibType17, sibType18, sibType19, sibType20, sibType21,
                                                        sibType22-v1800, sibType23-v1800 ,sibType24-v1800, sibType25-v1800,
                                                        sibType17bis-v1820, spare4, spare3, spare2, spare1,...},
        type2-r17                           SEQUENCE {
            posSibType-r17                      ENUMERATED {posSibType1-9, posSibType1-10, posSibType2-24, posSibType2-25,
                                                            posSibType6-4, posSibType6-5, posSibType6-6, posSibType2-17a-v1770,
                                                            posSibType2-18a-v1770, posSibType2-20a-v1770, posSibType1-11-v1800,
                                                            posSibType1-12-v1800, posSibType2-26-v1800, posSibType2-27-v1800,
                                                            posSibType6-7-v1800, posSibType7-1-v1800,...,
                                                            posSibType7-2-v1800, posSibType7-3-v1800, posSibType7-4-v1800},
            encrypted-r17                       ENUMERATED { true }                                     OPTIONAL, -- Need R
            gnss-id-r17                         GNSS-ID-r16                                             OPTIONAL, -- Need R
            sbas-id-r17                         SBAS-ID-r16                                             OPTIONAL  -- Cond GNSS-ID-SBAS
        }
    },
    valueTag-r17                            INTEGER (0..31)                                             OPTIONAL, -- Cond NonPosSIB
    areaScope-r17                           ENUMERATED {true}                                           OPTIONAL  -- Need S
}

-- TAG-SI-SCHEDULINGINFO-STOP
-- ASN1STOP









–	SK-Counter
The IE SK-Counter is a counter used upon initial configuration of SN security for NR-DC and NE-DC, as well as upon refresh of S-KgNB or S-KeNB based on the current or newly derived KgNB during RRC Resume or RRC Reconfiguration, as defined in TS 33.501 [11].
-- ASN1START
-- TAG-SKCOUNTER-START

SK-Counter ::=  INTEGER (0..65535)

-- TAG-SKCOUNTER-STOP
-- ASN1STOP

–	SlotFormatCombinationsPerCell
The IE SlotFormatCombinationsPerCell is used to configure the SlotFormatCombinations applicable for one serving cell (see TS 38.213 [13], clause 11.1.1).
SlotFormatCombinationsPerCell information element
-- ASN1START
-- TAG-SLOTFORMATCOMBINATIONSPERCELL-START

SlotFormatCombinationsPerCell ::=   SEQUENCE {
    servingCellId                       ServCellIndex,
    subcarrierSpacing                   SubcarrierSpacing,
    subcarrierSpacing2                  SubcarrierSpacing                                                         OPTIONAL, -- Need R
    slotFormatCombinations              SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxNrofSlotFormatCombinationsPerSet)) OF SlotFormatCombination
                                                                                                                  OPTIONAL, -- Need M
    positionInDCI                       INTEGER(0..maxSFI-DCI-PayloadSize-1)                                      OPTIONAL, -- Need M
    ...,
    [[
    enableConfiguredUL-r16              ENUMERATED {enabled}                                                      OPTIONAL  -- Need R
    ]]

}

SlotFormatCombination ::=           SEQUENCE {
    slotFormatCombinationId             SlotFormatCombinationId,
    slotFormats                         SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxNrofSlotFormatsPerCombination)) OF INTEGER (0..255)
}

SlotFormatCombinationId ::=         INTEGER (0..maxNrofSlotFormatCombinationsPerSet-1)

-- TAG-SLOTFORMATCOMBINATIONSPERCELL-STOP
-- ASN1STOP





–	SlotFormatIndicator
The IE SlotFormatIndicator is used to configure monitoring a Group-Common-PDCCH for Slot-Format-Indicators (SFI).
SlotFormatIndicator information element
-- ASN1START
-- TAG-SLOTFORMATINDICATOR-START

SlotFormatIndicator ::=     SEQUENCE {
    sfi-RNTI                    RNTI-Value,
    dci-PayloadSize             INTEGER (1..maxSFI-DCI-PayloadSize),
    slotFormatCombToAddModList  SEQUENCE (SIZE(1..maxNrofAggregatedCellsPerCellGroup)) OF SlotFormatCombinationsPerCell
                                                                                                                              OPTIONAL, -- Need N
    slotFormatCombToReleaseList SEQUENCE (SIZE(1..maxNrofAggregatedCellsPerCellGroup)) OF ServCellIndex                       OPTIONAL, -- Need N
    ...,
    [[
    availableRB-SetsToAddModList-r16  SEQUENCE (SIZE(1..maxNrofAggregatedCellsPerCellGroup)) OF AvailableRB-SetsPerCell-r16   OPTIONAL, -- Need N
    availableRB-SetsToReleaseList-r16 SEQUENCE (SIZE(1..maxNrofAggregatedCellsPerCellGroup)) OF ServCellIndex                 OPTIONAL, -- Need N
    switchTriggerToAddModList-r16     SEQUENCE (SIZE(1..4)) OF SearchSpaceSwitchTrigger-r16                                   OPTIONAL, -- Need N
    switchTriggerToReleaseList-r16    SEQUENCE (SIZE(1..4)) OF ServCellIndex                                                  OPTIONAL, -- Need N
    co-DurationsPerCellToAddModList-r16 SEQUENCE (SIZE(1..maxNrofAggregatedCellsPerCellGroup)) OF CO-DurationsPerCell-r16     OPTIONAL, -- Need N
    co-DurationsPerCellToReleaseList-r16 SEQUENCE (SIZE(1..maxNrofAggregatedCellsPerCellGroup)) OF ServCellIndex              OPTIONAL  -- Need N
    ]],
    [[
    switchTriggerToAddModListSizeExt-r16   SEQUENCE (SIZE(1..maxNrofAggregatedCellsPerCellGroupMinus4-r16)) OF
        SearchSpaceSwitchTrigger-r16  OPTIONAL, -- Need N
    switchTriggerToReleaseListSizeExt-r16  SEQUENCE (SIZE(1.. maxNrofAggregatedCellsPerCellGroupMinus4-r16)) OF
        ServCellIndex                 OPTIONAL  -- Need N
    ]],
    [[
    co-DurationsPerCellToAddModList-r17 SEQUENCE (SIZE(1..maxNrofAggregatedCellsPerCellGroup)) OF CO-DurationsPerCell-r17 OPTIONAL  -- Need N
    ]]
}

CO-DurationsPerCell-r16 ::=   SEQUENCE {
    servingCellId-r16             ServCellIndex,
    positionInDCI-r16             INTEGER(0..maxSFI-DCI-PayloadSize-1),
    subcarrierSpacing-r16         SubcarrierSpacing,
    co-DurationList-r16           SEQUENCE (SIZE(1..64)) OF CO-Duration-r16
}

CO-DurationsPerCell-r17 ::=   SEQUENCE {
    servingCellId-r17             ServCellIndex,
    positionInDCI-r17             INTEGER(0..maxSFI-DCI-PayloadSize-1),
    subcarrierSpacing-r17         SubcarrierSpacing,
    co-DurationList-r17           SEQUENCE (SIZE(1..64)) OF CO-Duration-r17
}

CO-Duration-r16 ::=    INTEGER (0..1120)
CO-Duration-r17 ::=    INTEGER (0..4480)

AvailableRB-SetsPerCell-r16 ::=   SEQUENCE {
    servingCellId-r16                 ServCellIndex,
    positionInDCI-r16                 INTEGER(0..maxSFI-DCI-PayloadSize-1)
}

SearchSpaceSwitchTrigger-r16 ::=   SEQUENCE {
    servingCellId-r16                  ServCellIndex,
    positionInDCI-r16                  INTEGER(0..maxSFI-DCI-PayloadSize-1)
}

-- TAG-SLOTFORMATINDICATOR-STOP
-- ASN1STOP









–	S-NSSAI
The IE S-NSSAI (Single Network Slice Selection Assistance Information) identifies a Network Slice end to end and comprises a slice/service type and a slice differentiator, see TS 23.003 [21].
S-NSSAI information element
-- ASN1START
-- TAG-S-NSSAI-START

S-NSSAI  ::=                        CHOICE{
    sst                                 BIT STRING (SIZE (8)),
    sst-SD                              BIT STRING (SIZE (32))
}

-- TAG-S-NSSAI-STOP
-- ASN1STOP



–	SpeedStateScaleFactors
The IE SpeedStateScaleFactors concerns factors, to be applied when the UE is in medium or high speed state, used for scaling a mobility control related parameter.
SpeedStateScaleFactors information element
-- ASN1START
-- TAG-SPEEDSTATESCALEFACTORS-START

SpeedStateScaleFactors ::=          SEQUENCE {
    sf-Medium                           ENUMERATED {oDot25, oDot5, oDot75, lDot0},
    sf-High                             ENUMERATED {oDot25, oDot5, oDot75, lDot0}
}
-- TAG-SPEEDSTATESCALEFACTORS-STOP
-- ASN1STOP



–	SPS-Config
The IE SPS-Config is used to configure downlink semi-persistent transmission. Multiple Downlink SPS configurations may be configured in one BWP of a serving cell.
SPS-Config information element
-- ASN1START
-- TAG-SPS-CONFIG-START

SPS-Config ::=                  SEQUENCE {
    periodicity                     ENUMERATED {ms10, ms20, ms32, ms40, ms64, ms80, ms128, ms160, ms320, ms640,
                                                        spare6, spare5, spare4, spare3, spare2, spare1},
    nrofHARQ-Processes              INTEGER (1..8),
    n1PUCCH-AN                      PUCCH-ResourceId                                                            OPTIONAL,   -- Need M
    mcs-Table                       ENUMERATED {qam64LowSE}                                                     OPTIONAL,   -- Need S
    ...,
    [[
    sps-ConfigIndex-r16             SPS-ConfigIndex-r16                                                         OPTIONAL,   -- Cond SPS-List
    harq-ProcID-Offset-r16          INTEGER (0..15)                                                             OPTIONAL,   -- Need R
    periodicityExt-r16              INTEGER (1..5120)                                                           OPTIONAL,   -- Need R
    harq-CodebookID-r16             INTEGER (1..2)                                                              OPTIONAL,   -- Need R
    pdsch-AggregationFactor-r16     ENUMERATED {n1, n2, n4, n8 }                                                OPTIONAL    -- Need S
    ]],
    [[
    sps-HARQ-Deferral-r17           INTEGER (1..32)                                                             OPTIONAL,   -- Need R
    n1PUCCH-AN-PUCCHsSCell-r17      PUCCH-ResourceId                                                            OPTIONAL,   -- Need R
    periodicityExt-r17              INTEGER (1..40960)                                                          OPTIONAL,   -- Need R
    nrofHARQ-Processes-v1710        INTEGER(9..32)                                                              OPTIONAL,   -- Need R
    harq-ProcID-Offset-v1700        INTEGER (16..31)                                                            OPTIONAL    -- Need R
    ]]
}

-- TAG-SPS-CONFIG-STOP
-- ASN1STOP





–	SPS-ConfigIndex
The IE SPS-ConfigIndex is used to indicate the index of one of multiple DL SPS configurations in one BWP.
SPS-ConfigIndex information element
-- ASN1START
-- TAG-SPS-CONFIGINDEX-START

SPS-ConfigIndex-r16             ::= INTEGER (0.. maxNrofSPS-Config-1-r16)

-- TAG-SPS-CONFIGINDEX-STOP
-- ASN1STOP

–	SPS-PUCCH-AN
The IE SPS-PUCCH-AN is used to indicate a PUCCH resource for HARQ ACK and configure the corresponding maximum payload size for the PUCCH resource.
SPS-PUCCH-AN information element
-- ASN1START
-- TAG-SPS-PUCCH-AN-START

SPS-PUCCH-AN-r16  ::=           SEQUENCE {
    sps-PUCCH-AN-ResourceID-r16     PUCCH-ResourceId,
    maxPayloadSize-r16              INTEGER (4..256)                     OPTIONAL    -- Need R
}

-- TAG-SPS-PUCCH-AN-STOP
-- ASN1STOP



–	SPS-PUCCH-AN-List
The IE SPS-PUCCH-AN-List is used to configure the list of PUCCH resources per HARQ ACK codebook
SPS-PUCCH-AN-List information element
-- ASN1START
-- TAG-SPS-PUCCH-AN-LIST-START

SPS-PUCCH-AN-List-r16 ::=      SEQUENCE (SIZE(1..4)) OF SPS-PUCCH-AN-r16

-- TAG-SPS-PUCCH-AN-LIST-STOP
-- ASN1STOP

–	SRB-Identity
The IE SRB-Identity is used to identify a Signalling Radio Bearer (SRB) used by a UE.
SRB-Identity information element
-- ASN1START
-- TAG-SRB-IDENTITY-START

SRB-Identity ::=                    INTEGER (1..3)

SRB-Identity-v1700 ::=              INTEGER (4)

SRB-Identity-v1800 ::=              INTEGER (5)

-- TAG-SRB-IDENTITY-STOP
-- ASN1STOP


–	SRS-CarrierSwitching
The IE SRS-CarrierSwitching is used to configure SRS carrier switching when PUSCH is not configured or to configure independent SRS power control from that of PUSCH.
SRS-CarrierSwitching information element
-- ASN1START
-- TAG-SRS-CARRIERSWITCHING-START

SRS-CarrierSwitching ::=            SEQUENCE {
    srs-SwitchFromServCellIndex         INTEGER (0..31)                                                         OPTIONAL,   -- Need M
    srs-SwitchFromCarrier               ENUMERATED {sUL, nUL},
    srs-TPC-PDCCH-Group                 CHOICE {
        typeA                               SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..32)) OF SRS-TPC-PDCCH-Config,
        typeB                               SRS-TPC-PDCCH-Config
    }                                                                                                           OPTIONAL,   -- Need M
    monitoringCells                     SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxNrofServingCells)) OF ServCellIndex               OPTIONAL,   -- Need M
    ...
}

SRS-TPC-PDCCH-Config ::=            SEQUENCE {
    srs-CC-SetIndexlist                 SEQUENCE (SIZE(1..4)) OF SRS-CC-SetIndex                                OPTIONAL    -- Need M
}

SRS-CC-SetIndex ::=                 SEQUENCE {
    cc-SetIndex                         INTEGER (0..3)                                                          OPTIONAL,   -- Need M
    cc-IndexInOneCC-Set                 INTEGER (0..7)                                                          OPTIONAL    -- Need M
}

-- TAG-SRS-CARRIERSWITCHING-STOP
-- ASN1STOP







–	SRS-Config
The IE SRS-Config is used to configure sounding reference signal transmissions. The configuration defines a list of SRS-Resources, a list of SRS-PosResources, a list of SRS-PosResourceSets and a list of SRS-ResourceSets. Each resource set defines a set of SRS-Resources or SRS-PosResources. The network triggers the transmission of the set of SRS-Resources or SRS-PosResources using a configured aperiodicSRS-ResourceTrigger (L1 DCI). The network does not configure SRS specific power control parameters alpha (without suffix) or pathlossReferenceRS if unifiedTCI-StateType is configured for the serving cell.
SRS-Config information element
-- ASN1START
-- TAG-SRS-CONFIG-START

SRS-Config ::=                          SEQUENCE {
    srs-ResourceSetToReleaseList            SEQUENCE (SIZE(1..maxNrofSRS-ResourceSets)) OF SRS-ResourceSetId        OPTIONAL,   -- Need N
    srs-ResourceSetToAddModList             SEQUENCE (SIZE(1..maxNrofSRS-ResourceSets)) OF SRS-ResourceSet          OPTIONAL,   -- Need N
    srs-ResourceToReleaseList               SEQUENCE (SIZE(1..maxNrofSRS-Resources)) OF SRS-ResourceId              OPTIONAL,   -- Need N
    srs-ResourceToAddModList                SEQUENCE (SIZE(1..maxNrofSRS-Resources)) OF SRS-Resource                OPTIONAL,   -- Need N
    tpc-Accumulation                        ENUMERATED {disabled}                                                   OPTIONAL,   -- Need S
    ...,
    [[
    srs-RequestDCI-1-2-r16                  INTEGER (1..2)                                                          OPTIONAL, -- Need S
    srs-RequestDCI-0-2-r16                  INTEGER (1..2)                                                          OPTIONAL, -- Need S
    srs-ResourceSetToAddModListDCI-0-2-r16  SEQUENCE (SIZE(1..maxNrofSRS-ResourceSets)) OF SRS-ResourceSet          OPTIONAL, -- Need N
    srs-ResourceSetToReleaseListDCI-0-2-r16 SEQUENCE (SIZE(1..maxNrofSRS-ResourceSets)) OF SRS-ResourceSetId        OPTIONAL, -- Need N
    srs-PosResourceSetToReleaseList-r16     SEQUENCE (SIZE(1..maxNrofSRS-PosResourceSets-r16)) OF SRS-PosResourceSetId-r16
                                                                                                                    OPTIONAL, -- Need N
    srs-PosResourceSetToAddModList-r16      SEQUENCE (SIZE(1..maxNrofSRS-PosResourceSets-r16)) OF SRS-PosResourceSet-r16        OPTIONAL,-- Need N
    srs-PosResourceToReleaseList-r16        SEQUENCE (SIZE(1..maxNrofSRS-PosResources-r16)) OF SRS-PosResourceId-r16            OPTIONAL,-- Need N
    srs-PosResourceToAddModList-r16         SEQUENCE (SIZE(1..maxNrofSRS-PosResources-r16)) OF SRS-PosResource-r16  OPTIONAL  -- Need N
    ]],
    [[
    dci-TriggeringPosResourceSetLink-r18    ENUMERATED { enabled }                                                  OPTIONAL  -- Need R
    ]]
}

SRS-ResourceSet ::=                     SEQUENCE {
    srs-ResourceSetId                       SRS-ResourceSetId,
    srs-ResourceIdList                      SEQUENCE (SIZE(1..maxNrofSRS-ResourcesPerSet)) OF SRS-ResourceId    OPTIONAL, -- Cond Setup
    resourceType                            CHOICE {
        aperiodic                               SEQUENCE {
            aperiodicSRS-ResourceTrigger            INTEGER (1..maxNrofSRS-TriggerStates-1),
            csi-RS                                  NZP-CSI-RS-ResourceId                                  OPTIONAL, -- Cond NonCodebook
            slotOffset                              INTEGER (1..32)                                        OPTIONAL, -- Need S
            ...,
            [[
            aperiodicSRS-ResourceTriggerList            SEQUENCE (SIZE(1..maxNrofSRS-TriggerStates-2))
                                                            OF INTEGER (1..maxNrofSRS-TriggerStates-1)     OPTIONAL  -- Need M
            ]]
        },
        semi-persistent                         SEQUENCE {
            associatedCSI-RS                        NZP-CSI-RS-ResourceId                                  OPTIONAL, -- Cond NonCodebook
            ...
        },
        periodic                                SEQUENCE {
            associatedCSI-RS                        NZP-CSI-RS-ResourceId                                  OPTIONAL, -- Cond NonCodebook
            ...
        }
    },
    usage                                   ENUMERATED {beamManagement, codebook, nonCodebook, antennaSwitching},
    alpha                                   Alpha                                                          OPTIONAL, -- Need S
    p0                                      INTEGER (-202..24)                                             OPTIONAL, -- Cond Setup
    pathlossReferenceRS                     PathlossReferenceRS-Config                                     OPTIONAL, -- Need M
    srs-PowerControlAdjustmentStates        ENUMERATED { sameAsFci2, separateClosedLoop}                   OPTIONAL, -- Need S
    ...,
    [[
    pathlossReferenceRSList-r16             SetupRelease { PathlossReferenceRSList-r16}                    OPTIONAL  -- Need M
    ]],
    [[
    usagePDC-r17                            ENUMERATED {true}                                              OPTIONAL, -- Need R
    availableSlotOffsetList-r17             SEQUENCE (SIZE(1..4)) OF AvailableSlotOffset-r17               OPTIONAL, -- Need R
    followUnifiedTCI-StateSRS-r17           ENUMERATED {enabled}                                           OPTIONAL  -- Need R
    ]],
    [[
    applyIndicatedTCI-State-r18             ENUMERATED {first, second}                                     OPTIONAL  -- Cond FollowUTCI
    ]]
}

AvailableSlotOffset-r17 ::=   INTEGER (0..7)

PathlossReferenceRS-Config ::=              CHOICE {
    ssb-Index                                   SSB-Index,
    csi-RS-Index                                NZP-CSI-RS-ResourceId
}

PathlossReferenceRSList-r16 ::=             SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxNrofSRS-PathlossReferenceRS-r16)) OF PathlossReferenceRS-r16

PathlossReferenceRS-r16 ::=                 SEQUENCE {
    srs-PathlossReferenceRS-Id-r16              SRS-PathlossReferenceRS-Id-r16,
    pathlossReferenceRS-r16                     PathlossReferenceRS-Config
}

SRS-PathlossReferenceRS-Id-r16 ::=          INTEGER (0..maxNrofSRS-PathlossReferenceRS-1-r16)

SRS-PosResourceSet-r16 ::=                  SEQUENCE {
    srs-PosResourceSetId-r16                    SRS-PosResourceSetId-r16,
    srs-PosResourceIdList-r16                   SEQUENCE (SIZE(1..maxNrofSRS-ResourcesPerSet)) OF SRS-PosResourceId-r16
                                                                                                           OPTIONAL, -- Cond Setup
    resourceType-r16                            CHOICE {
        aperiodic-r16                               SEQUENCE {
            aperiodicSRS-ResourceTriggerList-r16        SEQUENCE (SIZE(1..maxNrofSRS-TriggerStates-1))
                                                            OF INTEGER (1..maxNrofSRS-TriggerStates-1)     OPTIONAL, -- Need M
            ...
        },
        semi-persistent-r16                         SEQUENCE {
            ...
        },
        periodic-r16                                SEQUENCE {
            ...
        }
    },
    alpha-r16                                   Alpha                                                      OPTIONAL, -- Need S
    p0-r16                                      INTEGER (-202..24)                                         OPTIONAL, -- Cond Setup
    pathlossReferenceRS-Pos-r16                 CHOICE {
        ssb-IndexServing-r16                        SSB-Index,
        ssb-Ncell-r16                               SSB-InfoNcell-r16,
        dl-PRS-r16                                  DL-PRS-Info-r16
    }                                                                                                      OPTIONAL, -- Need M
    ...

}

SRS-ResourceSetId ::=                   INTEGER (0..maxNrofSRS-ResourceSets-1)

SRS-PosResourceSetId-r16 ::=            INTEGER (0..maxNrofSRS-PosResourceSets-1-r16)

SRS-Resource ::=                        SEQUENCE {
    srs-ResourceId                          SRS-ResourceId,
    nrofSRS-Ports                           ENUMERATED {port1, ports2, ports4},
    ptrs-PortIndex                          ENUMERATED {n0, n1 }                                           OPTIONAL,   -- Need R
    transmissionComb                        CHOICE {
        n2                                      SEQUENCE {
            combOffset-n2                           INTEGER (0..1),
            cyclicShift-n2                          INTEGER (0..7)
        },
        n4                                      SEQUENCE {
            combOffset-n4                           INTEGER (0..3),
            cyclicShift-n4                          INTEGER (0..11)
        }
    },
    resourceMapping                         SEQUENCE {
        startPosition                           INTEGER (0..5),
        nrofSymbols                             ENUMERATED {n1, n2, n4},
        repetitionFactor                        ENUMERATED {n1, n2, n4}
    },
    freqDomainPosition                      INTEGER (0..67),
    freqDomainShift                         INTEGER (0..268),
    freqHopping                             SEQUENCE {
        c-SRS                                   INTEGER (0..63),
        b-SRS                                   INTEGER (0..3),
        b-hop                                   INTEGER (0..3)
    },
    groupOrSequenceHopping                  ENUMERATED { neither, groupHopping, sequenceHopping },
    resourceType                            CHOICE {
        aperiodic                               SEQUENCE {
            ...
        },
        semi-persistent                         SEQUENCE {
            periodicityAndOffset-sp                     SRS-PeriodicityAndOffset,
            ...
        },
        periodic                                SEQUENCE {
            periodicityAndOffset-p                      SRS-PeriodicityAndOffset,
            ...
        }
    },
    sequenceId                              INTEGER (0..1023),
    spatialRelationInfo                     SRS-SpatialRelationInfo                                        OPTIONAL,   -- Need R
    ...,
    [[
    resourceMapping-r16                     SEQUENCE {
        startPosition-r16                       INTEGER (0..13),
        nrofSymbols-r16                         ENUMERATED {n1, n2, n4},
        repetitionFactor-r16                    ENUMERATED {n1, n2, n4}
    }                                                                                                      OPTIONAL    -- Need R
    ]],
    [[
    spatialRelationInfo-PDC-r17             SetupRelease { SpatialRelationInfo-PDC-r17 }                   OPTIONAL,   -- Need M
    resourceMapping-r17                     SEQUENCE {
        startPosition-r17                       INTEGER (0..13),
        nrofSymbols-r17                         ENUMERATED {n1, n2, n4, n8, n10, n12, n14},
        repetitionFactor-r17                    ENUMERATED {n1, n2, n4, n5, n6, n7, n8, n10, n12, n14}
    }                                                                                                      OPTIONAL,   -- Need R
    partialFreqSounding-r17                 SEQUENCE {
        startRBIndexFScaling-r17                CHOICE{
            startRBIndexAndFreqScalingFactor2-r17   INTEGER (0..1),
            startRBIndexAndFreqScalingFactor4-r17   INTEGER (0..3)
        },
        enableStartRBHopping-r17                ENUMERATED {enable}                                        OPTIONAL    -- Need R
    }                                                                                                      OPTIONAL,   -- Need R
    transmissionComb-n8-r17                 SEQUENCE {
        combOffset-n8-r17                       INTEGER (0..7),
        cyclicShift-n8-r17                      INTEGER (0..5)
    }                                                                                                      OPTIONAL,   -- Need R
    srs-TCI-State-r17                       CHOICE {
        srs-UL-TCI-State                        TCI-UL-StateId-r17,
        srs-DLorJointTCI-State                  TCI-StateId
    }                                                                                                      OPTIONAL    -- Need R
    ]],
    [[
    repetitionFactor-v1730                  ENUMERATED {n3}                                                OPTIONAL,   -- Need R
    srs-DLorJointTCI-State-v1730            SEQUENCE {
        cellAndBWP-r17                          ServingCellAndBWP-Id-r17
    }                                                                                                 OPTIONAL -- Cond DLorJointTCI-SRS
    ]],
    [[
    nrofSRS-Ports-n8-r18                    ENUMERATED {ports8, ports8tdm}                                 OPTIONAL,   -- Need R
    combOffsetHopping-r18                   SEQUENCE {
        hoppingId-r18                           INTEGER (0..1023)                                          OPTIONAL,   -- Need R
        hoppingSubset-r18                       CHOICE {
          transmissionComb-n4                       BIT STRING (SIZE (4)),
          transmissionComb-n8                       BIT STRING (SIZE (8))
        }                                                                                                  OPTIONAL,   -- Need R
        hoppingWithRepetition-r18               ENUMERATED {symbol, repetition}                            OPTIONAL    -- Need R
    }                                                                                                      OPTIONAL,   -- Need R
    cyclicShiftHopping-r18                  SEQUENCE {
        hoppingId-r18                           INTEGER (0..1023)                                          OPTIONAL,   -- Need R
        hoppingSubset-r18                       CHOICE {
          transmissionComb-n2                       BIT STRING (SIZE (8)),
          transmissionComb-n4                       BIT STRING (SIZE (12)),
          transmissionComb-n8                       BIT STRING (SIZE (6))
        }                                                                                                  OPTIONAL,   -- Need R
        hoppingFinerGranularity-r18             ENUMERATED {enable}                                        OPTIONAL    -- Need R
    }                                                                                                      OPTIONAL    -- Need R
    ]]
}

SRS-PosResource-r16::=                  SEQUENCE {
    srs-PosResourceId-r16                   SRS-PosResourceId-r16,
    transmissionComb-r16                    CHOICE {
        n2-r16                                  SEQUENCE {
            combOffset-n2-r16                       INTEGER (0..1),
            cyclicShift-n2-r16                      INTEGER (0..7)
        },
        n4-r16                                  SEQUENCE {
            combOffset-n4-r16                        INTEGER (0..3),
            cyclicShift-n4-r16                      INTEGER (0..11)
        },
        n8-r16                                  SEQUENCE {
            combOffset-n8-r16                       INTEGER (0..7),
            cyclicShift-n8-r16                      INTEGER (0..5)
        },
    ...
    },
    resourceMapping-r16                       SEQUENCE {
        startPosition-r16                           INTEGER (0..13),
        nrofSymbols-r16                             ENUMERATED {n1, n2, n4, n8, n12}
    },
    freqDomainShift-r16                       INTEGER (0..268),
    freqHopping-r16                           SEQUENCE {
        c-SRS-r16                                 INTEGER (0..63),
        ...
    },
    groupOrSequenceHopping-r16                ENUMERATED { neither, groupHopping, sequenceHopping },
    resourceType-r16                          CHOICE {
        aperiodic-r16                             SEQUENCE {
            slotOffset-r16                            INTEGER (1..32)                                      OPTIONAL,   -- Need S
            ...
        },
        semi-persistent-r16                       SEQUENCE {
            periodicityAndOffset-sp-r16               SRS-PeriodicityAndOffset-r16,
            ...,
            [[
            periodicityAndOffset-sp-Ext-r16           SRS-PeriodicityAndOffsetExt-r16                      OPTIONAL    -- Need R
            ]],
            [[
            srs-PosPeriodicConfigHyperSFN-Index-r18   ENUMERATED {even0, odd1}                             OPTIONAL     --Need R
           ]]
        },
        periodic-r16                              SEQUENCE {
            periodicityAndOffset-p-r16                SRS-PeriodicityAndOffset-r16,
            ...,
            [[
            periodicityAndOffset-p-Ext-r16            SRS-PeriodicityAndOffsetExt-r16                      OPTIONAL    -- Need R
            ]],
            [[
            srs-PosPeriodicConfigHyperSFN-Index-r18   ENUMERATED {even0, odd1}                             OPTIONAL     --Need R
            ]]
        }
    },
    sequenceId-r16                            INTEGER (0..65535),
    spatialRelationInfoPos-r16                SRS-SpatialRelationInfoPos-r16                               OPTIONAL,   -- Need R
    ...,
    [[
    txHoppingConfig-r18                       TxHoppingConfig-r18                                          OPTIONAL    --Need R	
    ]]
}

SRS-SpatialRelationInfo ::=     SEQUENCE {
    servingCellId                       ServCellIndex                                                      OPTIONAL,   -- Need S
    referenceSignal                     CHOICE {
        ssb-Index                           SSB-Index,
        csi-RS-Index                        NZP-CSI-RS-ResourceId,
        srs                                 SEQUENCE {
            resourceId                          SRS-ResourceId,
            uplinkBWP                           BWP-Id
        }
    }
}

SRS-SpatialRelationInfoPos-r16 ::=      CHOICE {
    servingRS-r16                           SEQUENCE {
        servingCellId                           ServCellIndex                                              OPTIONAL,   -- Need S
        referenceSignal-r16                     CHOICE {
            ssb-IndexServing-r16                    SSB-Index,
            csi-RS-IndexServing-r16                 NZP-CSI-RS-ResourceId,
            srs-SpatialRelation-r16                 SEQUENCE {
                resourceSelection-r16                   CHOICE {
                    srs-ResourceId-r16                      SRS-ResourceId,
                    srs-PosResourceId-r16                   SRS-PosResourceId-r16
                },
                uplinkBWP-r16                           BWP-Id
            }
        }
    },
    ssb-Ncell-r16                           SSB-InfoNcell-r16,
    dl-PRS-r16                              DL-PRS-Info-r16
}

SSB-Configuration-r16  ::=          SEQUENCE {
    ssb-Freq-r16                     ARFCN-ValueNR,
    halfFrameIndex-r16                  ENUMERATED {zero, one},
    ssbSubcarrierSpacing-r16            SubcarrierSpacing,
    ssb-Periodicity-r16                 ENUMERATED { ms5, ms10, ms20, ms40, ms80, ms160, spare2,spare1 }   OPTIONAL, -- Need S
    sfn0-Offset-r16                     SEQUENCE {
        sfn-Offset-r16                      INTEGER (0..1023),
        integerSubframeOffset-r16           INTEGER (0..9)                                                 OPTIONAL  -- Need R
    }                                                                                                      OPTIONAL, -- Need R
    sfn-SSB-Offset-r16                  INTEGER (0..15),
    ss-PBCH-BlockPower-r16              INTEGER (-60..50)                                                  OPTIONAL  -- Cond Pathloss
}

SSB-InfoNcell-r16  ::=              SEQUENCE {
    physicalCellId-r16                  PhysCellId,
    ssb-IndexNcell-r16                  SSB-Index                                                          OPTIONAL, -- Need S
    ssb-Configuration-r16               SSB-Configuration-r16                                              OPTIONAL  -- Need S
}

DL-PRS-Info-r16  ::=                SEQUENCE {
    dl-PRS-ID-r16                      INTEGER (0..255),
    dl-PRS-ResourceSetId-r16           INTEGER (0..7),
    dl-PRS-ResourceId-r16              INTEGER (0..63)                                                     OPTIONAL  -- Need S
}

SRS-ResourceId ::=                      INTEGER (0..maxNrofSRS-Resources-1)
SRS-PosResourceId-r16 ::=               INTEGER (0..maxNrofSRS-PosResources-1-r16)

SRS-PeriodicityAndOffset ::=            CHOICE {
    sl1                                     NULL,
    sl2                                     INTEGER(0..1),
    sl4                                     INTEGER(0..3),
    sl5                                     INTEGER(0..4),
    sl8                                     INTEGER(0..7),
    sl10                                    INTEGER(0..9),
    sl16                                    INTEGER(0..15),
    sl20                                    INTEGER(0..19),
    sl32                                    INTEGER(0..31),
    sl40                                    INTEGER(0..39),
    sl64                                    INTEGER(0..63),
    sl80                                    INTEGER(0..79),
    sl160                                   INTEGER(0..159),
    sl320                                   INTEGER(0..319),
    sl640                                   INTEGER(0..639),
    sl1280                                  INTEGER(0..1279),
    sl2560                                  INTEGER(0..2559)
}

SRS-PeriodicityAndOffset-r16 ::=        CHOICE {
    sl1                                     NULL,
    sl2                                     INTEGER(0..1),
    sl4                                     INTEGER(0..3),
    sl5                                     INTEGER(0..4),
    sl8                                     INTEGER(0..7),
    sl10                                    INTEGER(0..9),
    sl16                                    INTEGER(0..15),
    sl20                                    INTEGER(0..19),
    sl32                                    INTEGER(0..31),
    sl40                                    INTEGER(0..39),
    sl64                                    INTEGER(0..63),
    sl80                                    INTEGER(0..79),
    sl160                                   INTEGER(0..159),
    sl320                                   INTEGER(0..319),
    sl640                                   INTEGER(0..639),
    sl1280                                  INTEGER(0..1279),
    sl2560                                  INTEGER(0..2559),
    sl5120                                  INTEGER(0..5119),
    sl10240                                 INTEGER(0..10239),
    sl40960                                 INTEGER(0..40959),
    sl81920                                 INTEGER(0..81919),
    ...
}

SRS-PeriodicityAndOffsetExt-r16 ::=     CHOICE {
    sl128                                   INTEGER(0..127),
    sl256                                   INTEGER(0..255),
    sl512                                   INTEGER(0..511),
    sl20480                                 INTEGER(0..20479)
}

SpatialRelationInfo-PDC-r17 ::=   SEQUENCE {
    referenceSignal                   CHOICE {
        ssb-Index                         SSB-Index,
        csi-RS-Index                      NZP-CSI-RS-ResourceId,
        dl-PRS-PDC                        NR-DL-PRS-ResourceID-r17,
        srs                               SEQUENCE {
            resourceId                        SRS-ResourceId,
            uplinkBWP                         BWP-Id
        },
        ...
    },
    ...
}

TxHoppingConfig-r18 ::=             SEQUENCE {
    overlapValue-r18                    ENUMERATED {zeroRB, oneRB, twoRB, fourRB},
    numberOfHops-r18                    INTEGER(1..6),
    slotOffsetForRemainingHopsList-r18  SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxNrofHops-1-r18) ) OF SlotOffsetForRemainingHops-r18,
    ...
}

SlotOffsetForRemainingHops-r18 ::=  SEQUENCE {
    slotOffsetRemainingHops-r18         CHOICE {
        aperiodic-r18                       SEQUENCE {
            slotOffset-r18                      INTEGER (1..32)                                            OPTIONAL,   -- Need S
            startPosition-r18                   INTEGER (0..13)                                            OPTIONAL,   -- Need R
            ...
        },
        semi-persistent-r18                 SEQUENCE {
            periodicityAndOffset-sp-r18         SRS-PeriodicityAndOffset-r16                               OPTIONAL,   -- Need R
            periodicityAndOffset-sp-Ext-r18     SRS-PeriodicityAndOffsetExt-r16                            OPTIONAL,   -- Need R
            startPosition-r18                   INTEGER (0..13)                                            OPTIONAL,   -- Need R
            ...
        },
        periodic-r18                        SEQUENCE {
            periodicityAndOffset-p-r18          SRS-PeriodicityAndOffset-r16                               OPTIONAL,   -- Need R
            periodicityAndOffset-p-Ext-r18      SRS-PeriodicityAndOffsetExt-r16                            OPTIONAL,   -- Need R
            startPosition-r18                   INTEGER (0..13)                                            OPTIONAL,   -- Need S
            ...
          },
    ...
    }
}

-- TAG-SRS-CONFIG-STOP
-- ASN1STOP



















–	SRS-PosTx-Hopping
The IE SRS-PosTx-Hopping specifies the frequency hopping configuration for SRS for Positioning transmission.
SRS-PosTx-Hopping information element
-- ASN1START
-- TAG-SRS-PosTx-Hopping-START

SRS-PosTx-Hopping-r18 ::=                       SEQUENCE {
    srs-PosConfig-r18                               SRS-PosConfig-r17,
    bwp-r18                                         BWP                                                              OPTIONAL, -- Need R
    inactivePosSRS-TimeAlignmentTimer-r18           TimeAlignmentTimer                                               OPTIONAL, -- Need M
    inactivePosSRS-RSRP-ChangeThreshold-r18         RSRP-ChangeThreshold-r17                                         OPTIONAL, -- Need M
    srs-PosUplinkTransmissionWindowConfig-r18       SetupRelease { SRS-PosUplinkTransmissionWindowConfig-r18 }       OPTIONAL, -- Need M
    ...
}

SRS-PosUplinkTransmissionWindowConfig-r18 ::=   SEQUENCE {
    startSFN-r18                                    INTEGER(0..1023),
    windowPeriodicityAndOffset-r18                  CHOICE {
        periodicityAndOffset-r18                        SRS-PeriodicityAndOffset-r16,
        periodicityAndOffset-Ext-r18                    SRS-PeriodicityAndOffsetExt-r16
    },
    duration-r18                                    ENUMERATED {s1,s2,s4,s6},
    ...
}

-- TAG-SRS-PosTx-Hopping-STOP
-- ASN1STOP





–	SRS-PosResourceSetLinkedForAggBW
The IE SRS-PosResourceSetLinkedForAggBW provides the SRS Positioning Resource Sets that are linked for bandwidth aggregation across two or three component carriers.
SRS-PosResourceSetLinkedForAggBW information element
-- ASN1START
-- TAG-SRS-POSRESOURCESETLINKEDFORAGGBW-START

SRS-PosResourceSetLinkedForAggBW-r18	::= SEQUENCE {
    srs-PosResourceSetLinked-r18             SRS-PosResourceSetId-r16,
    srs-LinkedConfig-r18                     CHOICE {
        rrc-connectedState-r18                   SEQUENCE {
            servingCellAndBWP-Id-r18                  ServingCellAndBWP-Id-r17,
            ...
        },
        rrc-inactiveState-r18                    SEQUENCE {
            scs-SpecificCarrier-r18                   SCS-SpecificCarrier,
            freqInfo-r18                             ARFCN-ValueNR,
            ...
        }
    },
    ...
}

-- TAG-SRS-POSRESOURCESETLINKEDFORAGGBW-STOP
-- ASN1STOP



–	SRS-RSRP-Range
The IE SRS-RSRP-Range specifies the value range used in SRS-RSRP measurements and thresholds. The integer value for SRS-RSRP measurements is according to Table 10.1.22.1.2-1 in TS 38.133 [14]. For thresholds, the actual value is (IE value –140) dBm, except for the IE value 98, in which case the actual value is infinity.
SRS-RSRP-Range information element
-- ASN1START
-- TAG-SRS-RSRP-RANGE-START

SRS-RSRP-Range-r16 ::=                      INTEGER(0..98)

-- TAG-SRS-RSRP-RANGE-STOP
-- ASN1STOP

–	SRS-TPC-CommandConfig
The IE SRS-TPC-CommandConfig is used to configure the UE for extracting TPC commands for SRS from a group-TPC messages on DCI.
SRS-TPC-CommandConfig information element
-- ASN1START
-- TAG-SRS-TPC-COMMANDCONFIG-START

SRS-TPC-CommandConfig ::=               SEQUENCE {
    startingBitOfFormat2-3                  INTEGER (1..31)                                                     OPTIONAL,   -- Need R
    fieldTypeFormat2-3                      INTEGER (0..1)                                                      OPTIONAL,   -- Need R
    ...,
    [[
    startingBitOfFormat2-3SUL               INTEGER (1..31)                                                     OPTIONAL    -- Need R
    ]]
}

-- TAG-SRS-TPC-COMMANDCONFIG-STOP
-- ASN1STOP



–	SSB-Index
The IE SSB-Index identifies an SS-Block within an SS-Burst. See TS 38.213 [13], clause 4.1.
SSB-Index information element
-- ASN1START
-- TAG-SSB-INDEX-START

SSB-Index ::=                       INTEGER (0..maxNrofSSBs-1)

-- TAG-SSB-INDEX-STOP
-- ASN1STOP

–	SSB-MTC
The IE SSB-MTC is used to configure measurement timing configurations, i.e., timing occasions at which the UE measures SSBs.
SSB-MTC information element
-- ASN1START
-- TAG-SSB-MTC-START

SSB-MTC ::=                             SEQUENCE {
    periodicityAndOffset                    CHOICE {
        sf5                                 INTEGER (0..4),
        sf10                                    INTEGER (0..9),
        sf20                                    INTEGER (0..19),
        sf40                                    INTEGER (0..39),
        sf80                                    INTEGER (0..79),
        sf160                                   INTEGER (0..159)
    },
    duration                                ENUMERATED { sf1, sf2, sf3, sf4, sf5 }
}

SSB-MTC2 ::=                        SEQUENCE {
    pci-List                            SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxNrofPCIsPerSMTC)) OF PhysCellId                   OPTIONAL,   -- Need M
    periodicity                         ENUMERATED {sf5, sf10, sf20, sf40, sf80, spare3, spare2, spare1}
}

SSB-MTC2-LP-r16 ::=                 SEQUENCE {
    pci-List                            SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxNrofPCIsPerSMTC)) OF PhysCellId                   OPTIONAL,   -- Need R
    periodicity                         ENUMERATED {sf10, sf20, sf40, sf80, sf160, spare3, spare2, spare1}
}

SSB-MTC3-r16 ::=                    SEQUENCE {
    periodicityAndOffset-r16            CHOICE {
        sf5-r16                                     INTEGER (0..4),
        sf10-r16                                    INTEGER (0..9),
        sf20-r16                                    INTEGER (0..19),
        sf40-r16                                    INTEGER (0..39),
        sf80-r16                                    INTEGER (0..79),
        sf160-r16                                   INTEGER (0..159),
        sf320-r16                                   INTEGER (0..319),
        sf640-r16                                   INTEGER (0..639),
        sf1280-r16                                  INTEGER (0..1279)
    },
    duration-r16                        ENUMERATED {sf1, sf2, sf3, sf4, sf5},
    pci-List-r16                        SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxNrofPCIsPerSMTC)) OF PhysCellId                   OPTIONAL,  -- Need M
    ssb-ToMeasure-r16                   SetupRelease { SSB-ToMeasure }                                          OPTIONAL   -- Need M
}

SSB-MTC4-r17 ::=             SEQUENCE {
    pci-List-r17                 SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxNrofPCIsPerSMTC)) OF PhysCellId                          OPTIONAL,  -- Need M
    offset-r17                   INTEGER (0..159)
}

SSB-MTC-AdditionalPCI-r17 ::=       SEQUENCE {
    additionalPCIIndex-r17              AdditionalPCIIndex-r17,
    additionalPCI-r17                   PhysCellId,
    periodicity-r17                     ENUMERATED { ms5, ms10, ms20, ms40, ms80, ms160, spare2, spare1 },
    ssb-PositionsInBurst-r17            CHOICE {
        shortBitmap                         BIT STRING (SIZE (4)),
        mediumBitmap                        BIT STRING (SIZE (8)),
        longBitmap                          BIT STRING (SIZE (64))
    },
    ss-PBCH-BlockPower-r17              INTEGER (-60..50)
}

-- TAG-SSB-MTC-STOP
-- ASN1STOP











–	SSB-PositionQCL-Relation
The IE SSB-PositionQCL-Relation is used to indicate the QCL relationship between SSB positions on the frequency indicated by ssbFrequency (see TS 38.213 [13], clause 4.1) for operation with shared spectrum channel access. Value n1 corresponds to 1, value n2 corresponds to 2 and so on.
SSB-PositionQCL-Relation information element
-- ASN1START
-- TAG-SSB-POSITIONQCL-RELATION-START

SSB-PositionQCL-Relation-r16 ::=  ENUMERATED {n1,n2,n4,n8}

SSB-PositionQCL-Relation-r17 ::=  ENUMERATED {n32, n64}

-- TAG-SSB-POSITIONQCL-RELATION-STOP
-- ASN1STOP

–	SSB-ToMeasure
The IE SSB-ToMeasure is used to configure a pattern of SSBs. For operation with shared spectrum channel access in FR1, only mediumBitmap is used, and for FR2-2, longBitmap is used.
SSB-ToMeasure information element
-- ASN1START
-- TAG-SSB-TOMEASURE-START

SSB-ToMeasure ::=                   CHOICE {
    shortBitmap                         BIT STRING (SIZE (4)),
    mediumBitmap                        BIT STRING (SIZE (8)),
    longBitmap                          BIT STRING (SIZE (64))
}

-- TAG-SSB-TOMEASURE-STOP
-- ASN1STOP



–	SS-RSSI-Measurement
The IE SS-RSSI-Measurement is used to configure RSSI measurements based on synchronization reference signals.
SS-RSSI-Measurement information element
-- ASN1START
-- TAG-SS-RSSI-MEASUREMENT-START

SS-RSSI-Measurement ::=             SEQUENCE {
    measurementSlots                    BIT STRING (SIZE (1..80)),
    endSymbol                           INTEGER(0..3)
}

-- TAG-SS-RSSI-MEASUREMENT-STOP
-- ASN1STOP



–	SubcarrierSpacing
The IE SubcarrierSpacing determines the subcarrier spacing. Restrictions applicable for certain frequencies, channels or signals are clarified in the fields that use this IE.
SubcarrierSpacing information element
-- ASN1START
-- TAG-SUBCARRIERSPACING-START

SubcarrierSpacing ::=               ENUMERATED {kHz15, kHz30, kHz60, kHz120, kHz240, kHz480-v1700, kHz960-v1700, spare1}

-- TAG-SUBCARRIERSPACING-STOP
-- ASN1STOP

–	TAG-Config
The IE TAG-Config is used to configure parameters for a time-alignment group.
TAG-Config information element
-- ASN1START
-- TAG-TAG-CONFIG-START

TAG-Config ::=                      SEQUENCE {
    tag-ToReleaseList                   SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxNrofTAGs)) OF TAG-Id                          OPTIONAL,   -- Need N
    tag-ToAddModList                    SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxNrofTAGs)) OF TAG                             OPTIONAL    -- Need N
}

TAG ::=                             SEQUENCE {
    tag-Id                              TAG-Id,
    timeAlignmentTimer                  TimeAlignmentTimer,
    ...
}

TAG-Id ::=                          INTEGER (0..maxNrofTAGs-1)

-- TAG-TAG-CONFIG-STOP
-- ASN1STOP



–	TAR-Config
The IE TAR-Config is used to configure Timing Advance reporting in non-terrestrial networks and ATG network.
TAR-Config information element
-- ASN1START
-- TAG-TAR-CONFIG-START

TAR-Config-r17 ::=                      SEQUENCE {
    offsetThresholdTA-r17               ENUMERATED {ms0dot5, ms1, ms2, ms3, ms4, ms5, ms6 ,ms7, ms8, ms9, ms10, ms11, ms12,
                                                   ms13, ms14, ms15, spare13, spare12, spare11, spare10, spare9, spare8, spare7,
                                                   spare6, spare5, spare4, spare3, spare2, spare1}          OPTIONAL,    -- Need R
    timingAdvanceSR-r17                 ENUMERATED {enabled}                                                OPTIONAL,    -- Need R
    ...
}
TAR-Config-r18 ::=                      SEQUENCE {
    offsetThresholdTA-r18               INTEGER (1..56)                                                     OPTIONAL,    -- Need R
    timingAdvanceSR-r18                 ENUMERATED {enabled}                                                OPTIONAL,    -- Need R
    ...
}

-- TAG-TAR-CONFIG-STOP
-- ASN1STOP



–	TCI-ActivatedConfig
The IE TCI-ActivatedConfig is used to provide activated TCI states for PDSCH and/or PDCCH of the PSCell or of an SCell.
TCI-ActivatedConfig information element
-- ASN1START
-- TAG-TCI-ACTIVATEDCONFIG-START

TCI-ActivatedConfig-r17 ::= SEQUENCE {
    pdcch-TCI-r17               SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..5)) OF TCI-StateId,
    pdsch-TCI-r17               BIT STRING (SIZE (1..maxNrofTCI-States))
}

-- TAG-TCI-ACTIVATEDCONFIG-STOP
-- ASN1STOP



–	TCI-State
The IE TCI-State associates one or two DL reference signals with a corresponding quasi-colocation (QCL) type.
TCI-State information element
-- ASN1START
-- TAG-TCI-STATE-START

TCI-State ::=                       SEQUENCE {
    tci-StateId                         TCI-StateId,
    qcl-Type1                           QCL-Info,
    qcl-Type2                           QCL-Info                                                    OPTIONAL,   -- Need R
    ...,
    [[
    additionalPCI-r17                   AdditionalPCIIndex-r17                                      OPTIONAL,   -- Need R
    pathlossReferenceRS-Id-r17          PathlossReferenceRS-Id-r17                                  OPTIONAL,   -- Cond JointTCI1
    ul-powerControl-r17                 Uplink-powerControlId-r17                                   OPTIONAL    -- Cond JointTCI
    ]],
    [[
    tag-Id-ptr-r18                      ENUMERATED {n0,n1}                                          OPTIONAL    -- Cond 2TA
    ]]
}

QCL-Info ::=                        SEQUENCE {
    cell                                ServCellIndex                                               OPTIONAL,   -- Need R
    bwp-Id                              BWP-Id                                                      OPTIONAL, -- Cond CSI-RS-Indicated
    referenceSignal                     CHOICE {
        csi-rs                              NZP-CSI-RS-ResourceId,
        ssb                                 SSB-Index
    },
    qcl-Type                            ENUMERATED {typeA, typeB, typeC, typeD},
    ...
}

-- TAG-TCI-STATE-STOP
-- ASN1STOP







–	TCI-StateId
The IE TCI-StateId is used to identify one TCI-State configuration.
TCI-StateId information element
-- ASN1START
-- TAG-TCI-STATEID-START

TCI-StateId ::=                     INTEGER (0..maxNrofTCI-States-1)

-- TAG-TCI-STATEID-STOP
-- ASN1STOP

–	TCI-UL-State
The IE TCI-UL-State indicates the TCI state information for UL transmission.
TCI-UL-State information element
-- ASN1START
-- TAG-TCI-UL-STATE-START

TCI-UL-State-r17 ::=             SEQUENCE {
    tci-UL-StateId-r17              TCI-UL-StateId-r17,
    servingCellId-r17                ServCellIndex                                         OPTIONAL,   -- Need R
    bwp-Id-r17                       BWP-Id                                                OPTIONAL,   -- Cond CSI-RSorSRS-Indicated
    referenceSignal-r17              CHOICE {
        ssb-Index-r17                    SSB-Index,
        csi-RS-Index-r17                 NZP-CSI-RS-ResourceId,
        srs-r17                          SRS-ResourceId
    },
    additionalPCI-r17                AdditionalPCIIndex-r17                                OPTIONAL,   -- Need R
    ul-powerControl-r17              Uplink-powerControlId-r17                             OPTIONAL,   -- Need R
    pathlossReferenceRS-Id-r17       PathlossReferenceRS-Id-r17                            OPTIONAL,   -- Cond Mandatory
    ...,
    [[
    tag-Id-ptr-r18                   ENUMERATED {n0,n1}                                    OPTIONAL    -- Cond 2TA
    ]]
}

-- TAG-TCI-UL-STATE-STOP
-- ASN1STOP





–	TCI-UL-StateId
The IE TCI-UL-StateId is used to identify one TCI-UL-State configuration.
TCI-UL-StateId information element
-- ASN1START
-- TAG-TCI-UL-STATEID-START

TCI-UL-StateId-r17 ::=              INTEGER (0..maxUL-TCI-1-r17)

-- TAG-TCI-UL-STATEID-STOP
-- ASN1STOP

–	TDD-UL-DL-ConfigCommon
The IE TDD-UL-DL-ConfigCommon determines the cell specific Uplink/Downlink TDD configuration.
TDD-UL-DL-ConfigCommon information element
-- ASN1START
-- TAG-TDD-UL-DL-CONFIGCOMMON-START

TDD-UL-DL-ConfigCommon ::=          SEQUENCE {
    referenceSubcarrierSpacing          SubcarrierSpacing,
    pattern1                            TDD-UL-DL-Pattern,
    pattern2                            TDD-UL-DL-Pattern                                                       OPTIONAL, -- Need R
    ...
}

TDD-UL-DL-Pattern ::=               SEQUENCE {
    dl-UL-TransmissionPeriodicity       ENUMERATED {ms0p5, ms0p625, ms1, ms1p25, ms2, ms2p5, ms5, ms10},
    nrofDownlinkSlots                   INTEGER (0..maxNrofSlots),
    nrofDownlinkSymbols                 INTEGER (0..maxNrofSymbols-1),
    nrofUplinkSlots                     INTEGER (0..maxNrofSlots),
    nrofUplinkSymbols                   INTEGER (0..maxNrofSymbols-1),
    ...,
    [[
    dl-UL-TransmissionPeriodicity-v1530     ENUMERATED {ms3, ms4}                                               OPTIONAL -- Need R
    ]]
}

-- TAG-TDD-UL-DL-CONFIGCOMMON-STOP
-- ASN1STOP





–	TDD-UL-DL-ConfigDedicated
The IE TDD-UL-DL-ConfigDedicated determines the UE-specific Uplink/Downlink TDD configuration.
TDD-UL-DL-ConfigDedicated information element
-- ASN1START
-- TAG-TDD-UL-DL-CONFIGDEDICATED-START

TDD-UL-DL-ConfigDedicated ::=       SEQUENCE {
    slotSpecificConfigurationsToAddModList      SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxNrofSlots)) OF TDD-UL-DL-SlotConfig       OPTIONAL, -- Need N
    slotSpecificConfigurationsToReleaseList     SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxNrofSlots)) OF TDD-UL-DL-SlotIndex        OPTIONAL, -- Need N
    ...
}

TDD-UL-DL-ConfigDedicated-IAB-MT-r16::=         SEQUENCE {
    slotSpecificConfigurationsToAddModList-IAB-MT-r16  SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxNrofSlots)) OF TDD-UL-DL-SlotConfig-IAB-MT-r16      OPTIONAL, -- Need N
    slotSpecificConfigurationsToReleaseList-IAB-MT-r16 SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxNrofSlots)) OF TDD-UL-DL-SlotIndex                  OPTIONAL, -- Need N
    ...
}

TDD-UL-DL-SlotConfig ::=            SEQUENCE {
    slotIndex                           TDD-UL-DL-SlotIndex,
    symbols                             CHOICE {
        allDownlink                         NULL,
        allUplink                           NULL,
        explicit                            SEQUENCE {
            nrofDownlinkSymbols                 INTEGER (1..maxNrofSymbols-1)                                   OPTIONAL, -- Need S
            nrofUplinkSymbols                   INTEGER (1..maxNrofSymbols-1)                                   OPTIONAL  -- Need S
        }
    }
}

TDD-UL-DL-SlotConfig-IAB-MT-r16::=    SEQUENCE {
    slotIndex-r16                           TDD-UL-DL-SlotIndex,
    symbols-IAB-MT-r16                      CHOICE {
        allDownlink-r16                         NULL,
        allUplink-r16                           NULL,
        explicit-r16                            SEQUENCE {
            nrofDownlinkSymbols-r16                 INTEGER (1..maxNrofSymbols-1)                               OPTIONAL, -- Need S
            nrofUplinkSymbols-r16                   INTEGER (1..maxNrofSymbols-1)                               OPTIONAL  -- Need S
        },
        explicit-IAB-MT-r16                     SEQUENCE {
            nrofDownlinkSymbols-r16                 INTEGER (1..maxNrofSymbols-1)                               OPTIONAL, -- Need S
            nrofUplinkSymbols-r16                   INTEGER (1..maxNrofSymbols-1)                               OPTIONAL  -- Need S
        }
    }
}

TDD-UL-DL-SlotIndex ::=             INTEGER (0..maxNrofSlots-1)

-- TAG-TDD-UL-DL-CONFIGDEDICATED-STOP
-- ASN1STOP









–	TrackingAreaCode
The IE TrackingAreaCode is used to identify a tracking area within the scope of a PLMN/SNPN, see TS 24.501 [23].
TrackingAreaCode information element
-- ASN1START
-- TAG-TRACKINGAREACODE-START

TrackingAreaCode ::= BIT STRING (SIZE (24))

-- TAG-TRACKINGAREACODE-STOP
-- ASN1STOP

–	T-Reselection
The IE T-Reselection concerns the cell reselection timer TreselectionRAT for NR and E-UTRA. Value in seconds. For value 0, behaviour as specified in 7.1.2 applies.
T-Reselection information element
-- ASN1START
-- TAG-TRESELECTION-START

T-Reselection ::=                   INTEGER (0..7)

-- TAG-TRESELECTION-STOP
-- ASN1STOP

–	TimeAlignmentTimer
The IE TimeAlignmentTimer is used to configure the time alignment timer as specified in TS 38.321 [3]. The values are in ms.
TimeAlignmentTimer information element
-- ASN1START
-- TAG-TIMEALIGNMENTTIMER-START

TimeAlignmentTimer ::=              ENUMERATED {ms500, ms750, ms1280, ms1920, ms2560, ms5120, ms10240, infinity}

-- TAG-TIMEALIGNMENTTIMER-STOP
-- ASN1STOP

–	TimeToTrigger
The IE TimeToTrigger specifies the value range used for time to trigger parameter, which concerns the time during which specific criteria for the event needs to be met in order to trigger a measurement report. Value ms0 corresponds to 0 ms and behaviour as specified in 7.1.2 applies, value ms40 corresponds to 40 ms, and so on.
TimeToTrigger information element
-- ASN1START
-- TAG-TIMETOTRIGGER-START

TimeToTrigger ::=                   ENUMERATED {
                                        ms0, ms40, ms64, ms80, ms100, ms128, ms160, ms256,
                                        ms320, ms480, ms512, ms640, ms1024, ms1280, ms2560,
                                        ms5120}

-- TAG-TIMETOTRIGGER-STOP
-- ASN1STOP

–	TN-AreaId
The IE TN-AreaId is used to identify a TN coverage area in an NTN system.
TN-AreaId information element
-- ASN1START
-- TAG-TN-AREAID-START

TN-AreaId-r18 ::=                  INTEGER (1..maxTN-AreaInfo-r18)

-- TAG-TN-AREAID-STOP
-- ASN1STOP

–	UAC-BarringInfoSetIndex
The IE UAC-BarringInfoSetIndex provides the index of the entry in uac-BarringInfoSetList. Value 1 corresponds to the first entry in uac-BarringInfoSetList, value 2 corresponds to the second entry in this list and so on. An index value referring to an entry not included in uac-BarringInfoSetList indicates no barring.
UAC-BarringInfoSetIndex information element
-- ASN1START
-- TAG-UAC-BARRINGINFOSETINDEX-START

UAC-BarringInfoSetIndex ::=                INTEGER (1..maxBarringInfoSet)

-- TAG-UAC-BARRINGINFOSETINDEX-STOP
-- ASN1STOP

–	UAC-BarringInfoSetList
The IE UAC-BarringInfoSetList provides a list of access control parameter sets. An access category can be configured with access parameters according to one of the sets.
UAC-BarringInfoSetList information element
-- ASN1START
-- TAG-UAC-BARRINGINFOSETLIST-START

UAC-BarringInfoSetList ::=          SEQUENCE (SIZE(1..maxBarringInfoSet)) OF UAC-BarringInfoSet

UAC-BarringInfoSetList-v1700 ::= SEQUENCE (SIZE(1..maxBarringInfoSet)) OF UAC-BarringInfoSet-v1700

UAC-BarringInfoSet ::=              SEQUENCE {
    uac-BarringFactor                   ENUMERATED {p00, p05, p10, p15, p20, p25, p30, p40,
                                                    p50, p60, p70, p75, p80, p85, p90, p95},
    uac-BarringTime                     ENUMERATED {s4, s8, s16, s32, s64, s128, s256, s512},
    uac-BarringForAccessIdentity        BIT STRING (SIZE(7))
}

UAC-BarringInfoSet-v1700 ::= SEQUENCE {
    uac-BarringFactorForAI3-r17  ENUMERATED {p00, p05, p10, p15, p20, p25, p30, p40, p50, p60, p70, p75, p80, p85, p90, p95}
                                                                       OPTIONAL  -- Need S
}

-- TAG-UAC-BARRINGINFOSETLIST-STOP
-- ASN1STOP



–	UAC-BarringPerCatList
The IE UAC-BarringPerCatList provides access control parameters for a list of access categories.
UAC-BarringPerCatList information element
-- ASN1START
-- TAG-UAC-BARRINGPERCATLIST-START

UAC-BarringPerCatList ::=           SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxAccessCat-1)) OF UAC-BarringPerCat

UAC-BarringPerCat ::=               SEQUENCE {
   accessCategory                       INTEGER (1..maxAccessCat-1),
   uac-barringInfoSetIndex              UAC-BarringInfoSetIndex
}

-- TAG-UAC-BARRINGPERCATLIST-STOP
-- ASN1STOP



–	UAC-BarringPerPLMN-List
The IE UAC-BarringPerPLMN-List provides access category specific access control parameters, which are configured per PLMN/SNPN.
UAC-BarringPerPLMN-List information element
-- ASN1START
-- TAG-UAC-BARRINGPERPLMN-LIST-START

UAC-BarringPerPLMN-List ::=         SEQUENCE (SIZE (1.. maxPLMN)) OF UAC-BarringPerPLMN

UAC-BarringPerPLMN ::=              SEQUENCE {
    plmn-IdentityIndex                  INTEGER (1..maxPLMN),
    uac-ACBarringListType               CHOICE{
        uac-ImplicitACBarringList           SEQUENCE (SIZE(maxAccessCat-1)) OF UAC-BarringInfoSetIndex,
        uac-ExplicitACBarringList           UAC-BarringPerCatList
    }                                                                                                     OPTIONAL     -- Need S
}

-- TAG-UAC-BARRINGPERPLMN-LIST-STOP
-- ASN1STOP



–	UE-TimersAndConstants
The IE UE-TimersAndConstants contains timers and constants used by the UE in RRC_CONNECTED, RRC_INACTIVE and RRC_IDLE.
UE-TimersAndConstants information element
-- ASN1START
-- TAG-UE-TIMERSANDCONSTANTS-START

UE-TimersAndConstants ::=           SEQUENCE {
    t300                                ENUMERATED {ms100, ms200, ms300, ms400, ms600, ms1000, ms1500, ms2000},
    t301                                ENUMERATED {ms100, ms200, ms300, ms400, ms600, ms1000, ms1500, ms2000},
    t310                                ENUMERATED {ms0, ms50, ms100, ms200, ms500, ms1000, ms2000},
    n310                                ENUMERATED {n1, n2, n3, n4, n6, n8, n10, n20},
    t311                                ENUMERATED {ms1000, ms3000, ms5000, ms10000, ms15000, ms20000, ms30000},
    n311                                ENUMERATED {n1, n2, n3, n4, n5, n6, n8, n10},
    t319                                ENUMERATED {ms100, ms200, ms300, ms400, ms600, ms1000, ms1500, ms2000},
    ...
}

-- TAG-UE-TIMERSANDCONSTANTS-STOP
-- ASN1STOP

–	UE-TimersAndConstantsRemoteUE
The IE UE-TimersAndConstantsRemoteUE contains timers and constants used by the L2 U2N Remote UE in RRC_CONNECTED, RRC_INACTIVE and RRC_IDLE.
UE-TimersAndConstantsRemoteUE information element
-- ASN1START
-- TAG-UE-TIMERSANDCONSTANTSREMOTEUE-START

UE-TimersAndConstantsRemoteUE-r17 ::= SEQUENCE {
    t300-RemoteUE-r17                     ENUMERATED {ms100, ms200, ms300, ms400, ms600, ms1000, ms1500, ms2000} OPTIONAL, -- Need S
    t301-RemoteUE-r17                     ENUMERATED {ms100, ms200, ms300, ms400, ms600, ms1000, ms1500, ms2000} OPTIONAL, -- Need S
    t319-RemoteUE-r17                     ENUMERATED {ms100, ms200, ms300, ms400, ms600, ms1000, ms1500, ms2000} OPTIONAL, -- Need S
    ...
}

-- TAG-UE-TIMERSANDCONSTANTSREMOTEUE-STOP
-- ASN1STOP



–	UL-DelayValueConfig
The IE UL-DelayValueConfig specifies the configuration of the UL PDCP Packet Delay value per DRB measurement specified in TS 38.314 [53].
UL-DelayValueConfig information element
-- ASN1START
-- TAG-ULDELAYVALUECONFIG-START

UL-DelayValueConfig-r16 ::=  SEQUENCE {
    delay-DRBlist-r16            SEQUENCE (SIZE(1..maxDRB)) OF DRB-Identity
}

-- TAG-ULDELAYVALUECONFIG-STOP
-- ASN1STOP



–	UL-ExcessDelayConfig
The IE UL-ExcessDelayConfig IE specifies the configuration of the UL PDCP Excess Packet Delay per DRB measurement specified in TS 38.314 [53].
UL-ExcessDelayConfig information element
-- ASN1START
-- TAG-ULEXCESSDELAYCONFIG-START

UL-ExcessDelayConfig-r17 ::=  SEQUENCE {
    excessDelay-DRBlist-r17       SEQUENCE (SIZE(1..maxDRB)) OF ExcessDelay-DRB-IdentityInfo-r17
}

ExcessDelay-DRB-IdentityInfo-r17 ::=  SEQUENCE {
    drb-IdentityList                      SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxDRB)) OF DRB-Identity,
    delayThreshold                        ENUMERATED {ms0dot25, ms0dot5, ms1, ms2, ms4, ms5, ms10, ms20, ms30, ms40, ms50, ms60, ms70,
                                                      ms80, ms90, ms100, ms150, ms300, ms500}
}

-- TAG-ULEXCESSDELAYCONFIG-STOP
-- ASN1STOP



–	UL-GapFR2-Config
The IE UL-GapFR2-Config specifies the FR2 uplink gap configuration.
UL-GapFR2-Config information element
-- ASN1START
-- TAG-UL-GAPFR2-CONFIG-START

UL-GapFR2-Config-r17 ::=      SEQUENCE {
    gapOffset-r17                 INTEGER (0..159),
    ugl-r17                       ENUMERATED {ms0dot125, ms0dot25, ms0dot5, ms1},
    ugrp-r17                      ENUMERATED {ms5, ms20, ms40, ms160},
    refFR2-ServCellAsyncCA-r17    ServCellIndex                                                      OPTIONAL -- Cond AsyncCA
}

-- TAG-UL-GAPFR2-CONFIG-STOP
-- ASN1STOP





–	UplinkCancellation
The IE UplinkCancellation is used to configure the UE to monitor PDCCH for the CI-RNTI.
UplinkCancellation information element
-- ASN1START
-- TAG-UPLINKCANCELLATION-START

UplinkCancellation-r16 ::=           SEQUENCE {
    ci-RNTI-r16                          RNTI-Value,
    dci-PayloadSizeForCI-r16             INTEGER (0..maxCI-DCI-PayloadSize-r16),
    ci-ConfigurationPerServingCell-r16   SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxNrofServingCells)) OF CI-ConfigurationPerServingCell-r16,
    ...
}

CI-ConfigurationPerServingCell-r16 ::=   SEQUENCE {
    servingCellId                            ServCellIndex,
    positionInDCI-r16                        INTEGER (0..maxCI-DCI-PayloadSize-1-r16),
    positionInDCI-ForSUL-r16                 INTEGER (0..maxCI-DCI-PayloadSize-1-r16)                             OPTIONAL,   -- Cond SUL-Only
    ci-PayloadSize-r16                       ENUMERATED {n1, n2, n4, n5, n7, n8, n10, n14, n16, n20, n28, n32, n35, n42, n56, n112},
    timeFrequencyRegion-r16                  SEQUENCE {
        timeDurationForCI-r16                    ENUMERATED {n2, n4, n7, n14}                                      OPTIONAL,   -- Cond SymbolPeriodicity
        timeGranularityForCI-r16                 ENUMERATED {n1, n2, n4, n7, n14, n28},
        frequencyRegionForCI-r16                 INTEGER (0..37949),
        deltaOffset-r16                          INTEGER (0..2),
        ...
    },
    uplinkCancellationPriority-v1610         ENUMERATED {enabled}                                                  OPTIONAL    -- Need S
}

-- TAG-UPLINKCANCELLATION-STOP
-- ASN1STOP







–	UplinkConfigCommon
The IE UplinkConfigCommon provides common uplink parameters of a cell.
UplinkConfigCommon information element
-- ASN1START
-- TAG-UPLINKCONFIGCOMMON-START

UplinkConfigCommon ::=              SEQUENCE {
    frequencyInfoUL                     FrequencyInfoUL                                 OPTIONAL,   -- Cond InterFreqHOAndServCellAdd
    initialUplinkBWP                    BWP-UplinkCommon                                OPTIONAL,   -- Cond ServCellAdd
    dummy                               TimeAlignmentTimer
}

UplinkConfigCommon-v1700 ::=        SEQUENCE {
    initialUplinkBWP-RedCap-r17         BWP-UplinkCommon                                OPTIONAL    -- Need R
}

-- TAG-UPLINKCONFIGCOMMON-STOP
-- ASN1STOP





–	UplinkConfigCommonSIB
The IE UplinkConfigCommonSIB provides common uplink parameters of a cell.
UplinkConfigCommonSIB information element
-- ASN1START
-- TAG-UPLINKCONFIGCOMMONSIB-START

UplinkConfigCommonSIB ::=               SEQUENCE {
    frequencyInfoUL                         FrequencyInfoUL-SIB,
    initialUplinkBWP                        BWP-UplinkCommon,
    timeAlignmentTimerCommon                TimeAlignmentTimer
}

UplinkConfigCommonSIB-v1700 ::=         SEQUENCE {
    initialUplinkBWP-RedCap-r17             BWP-UplinkCommon                                OPTIONAL   -- Need R
}

UplinkConfigCommonSIB-v1760 ::=         SEQUENCE {
    frequencyInfoUL-v1760                   FrequencyInfoUL-SIB-v1760
}

-- TAG-UPLINKCONFIGCOMMONSIB-STOP
-- ASN1STOP



–	Uplink-PowerControl
The IE Uplink-PowerControl is used to configure UE specific power control parameter for PUSCH, PUCCH and SRS.
Uplink-PowerControl information element
-- ASN1START
-- TAG-UPLINK-POWERCONTROL-START

Uplink-powerControl-r17  ::= SEQUENCE {
    ul-powercontrolId-r17        Uplink-powerControlId-r17,
    p0AlphaSetforPUSCH-r17       P0AlphaSet-r17                                                               OPTIONAL, -- Need R
    p0AlphaSetforPUCCH-r17       P0AlphaSet-r17                                                               OPTIONAL, -- Need R
    p0AlphaSetforSRS-r17         P0AlphaSet-r17                                                               OPTIONAL  -- Need R
}

P0AlphaSet-r17 ::=           SEQUENCE {
    p0-r17                       INTEGER (-16..15)                                                            OPTIONAL, -- Need R
    alpha-r17                    Alpha                                                                        OPTIONAL, -- Need S
    closedLoopIndex-r17          ENUMERATED { i0, i1 }
}

Uplink-powerControlId-r17 ::= INTEGER(1.. maxUL-TCI-r17)

-- TAG-UPLINK-POWERCONTROL-STOP
-- ASN1STOP



–	Uu-RelayRLC-ChannelConfig
The IE Uu-RelayRLC-ChannelConfig is used to configure an RLC entity, a corresponding logical channel in MAC for Uu Relay RLC channel between L2 U2N Relay UE and network, or between a N3C relay UE and network in case of MP.
Uu-RelayRLC-ChannelConfig information element
-- ASN1START
-- TAG-UU-RELAYRLC-CHANNELCONFIG-START

Uu-RelayRLC-ChannelConfig-r17::= SEQUENCE {
    uu-LogicalChannelIdentity-r17    LogicalChannelIdentity                    OPTIONAL,   -- Cond RelayLCH-SetupOnly
    uu-RelayRLC-ChannelID-r17        Uu-RelayRLC-ChannelID-r17,
    reestablishRLC-r17               ENUMERATED {true}                         OPTIONAL,   -- Need N
    rlc-Config-r17                   RLC-Config                                OPTIONAL,   -- Cond RelayLCH-Setup
    mac-LogicalChannelConfig-r17     LogicalChannelConfig                      OPTIONAL,   -- Cond RelayLCH-Setup
    ...
}

-- TAG-UU-RELAYRLC-CHANNELCONFIG-STOP
-- ASN1STOP





–	Uu-RelayRLC-ChannelID
The IE Uu-RelayRLC-ChannelID is used to identify a Uu Relay RLC channel in the link between L2 U2N Relay UE and network.
Uu-RelayRLC-ChannelID information element
-- ASN1START
-- TAG-UU-RELAYRLC-CHANNELID-START

Uu-RelayRLC-ChannelID-r17 ::= INTEGER (1..maxLC-ID)

-- TAG-UU-RELAYRLC-CHANNELID-STOP
-- ASN1STOP

–	UplinkTxDirectCurrentList
The IE UplinkTxDirectCurrentList indicates the Tx Direct Current locations per serving cell for each configured UL BWP in the serving cell, based on the BWP numerology and the associated carrier bandwidth.
UplinkTxDirectCurrentList information element
-- ASN1START
-- TAG-UPLINKTXDIRECTCURRENTLIST-START

UplinkTxDirectCurrentList ::=           SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxNrofServingCells)) OF UplinkTxDirectCurrentCell

UplinkTxDirectCurrentCell ::=           SEQUENCE {
    servCellIndex                           ServCellIndex,
    uplinkDirectCurrentBWP                  SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxNrofBWPs)) OF UplinkTxDirectCurrentBWP,
    ...,
    [[
    uplinkDirectCurrentBWP-SUL              SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxNrofBWPs)) OF UplinkTxDirectCurrentBWP               OPTIONAL
    ]]
}

UplinkTxDirectCurrentBWP ::=            SEQUENCE {
    bwp-Id                                  BWP-Id,
    shift7dot5kHz                           BOOLEAN,
    txDirectCurrentLocation                 INTEGER (0..3301)
}

-- TAG-UPLINKTXDIRECTCURRENTLIST-STOP
-- ASN1STOP





–	UplinkTxDirectCurrentMoreCarrierList
The IE UplinkTxDirectCurrentMoreCarrierList indicates the Tx Direct Current locations for intra-band CA including one, two or more uplink carriers. The UE does not report the uplink Direct Current location information for SUL carrier(s).
UplinkTxDirectCurrentMoreCarrierList information element
-- ASN1START
-- TAG-UPLINKTXDIRECTCURRENTMORECARRIERLIST-START

UplinkTxDirectCurrentMoreCarrierList-r17 ::=   SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxNrofCC-Group-r17)) OF CC-Group-r17

CC-Group-r17 ::=           SEQUENCE {
    servCellIndexLower-r17     ServCellIndex,
    servCellIndexHigher-r17    ServCellIndex              OPTIONAL,
    defaultDC-Location-r17     DefaultDC-Location-r17,
    offsetToDefault-r17        CHOICE{
        offsetValue                OffsetValue-r17,
        offsetlist                 SEQUENCE (SIZE(1..maxNrofReqComDC-Location-r17)) OF OffsetValue-r17
    }                                                     OPTIONAL
}


OffsetValue-r17::=         SEQUENCE {
    offsetValue-r17            INTEGER (-20000.. 20000),
    shift7dot5kHz-r17          BOOLEAN
}

DefaultDC-Location-r17 ::= CHOICE {
    ul                         FrequencyComponent-r17,
    dl                         FrequencyComponent-r17,
    ulAndDL                    FrequencyComponent-r17
}

FrequencyComponent-r17 ::=  ENUMERATED {activeCarrier,configuredCarrier,activeBWP,configuredBWP}

-- TAG-UPLINKTXDIRECTCURRENTMORECARRIERLIST-STOP
-- ASN1STOP





–	UplinkTxDirectCurrentTwoCarrierList
The IE UplinkTxDirectCurrentTwoCarrierList indicates the Tx Direct Current locations when uplink intra-band CA with two carriers is configured, based on the configured carriers and BWP numerology and the associated carrier bandwidth of the carriers. The UE does not report the uplink Direct Current location information for SUL carrier(s).
UplinkTxDirectCurrentTwoCarrierList information element
-- ASN1START
-- TAG-UPLINKTXDIRECTCURRENTTWOCARRIERLIST-START

UplinkTxDirectCurrentTwoCarrierList-r16 ::=   SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxNrofTxDC-TwoCarrier-r16)) OF UplinkTxDirectCurrentTwoCarrier-r16

UplinkTxDirectCurrentTwoCarrier-r16 ::=       SEQUENCE {
    carrierOneInfo-r16                            UplinkTxDirectCurrentCarrierInfo-r16,
    carrierTwoInfo-r16                            UplinkTxDirectCurrentCarrierInfo-r16,
    singlePA-TxDirectCurrent-r16                  UplinkTxDirectCurrentTwoCarrierInfo-r16,
    secondPA-TxDirectCurrent-r16                  UplinkTxDirectCurrentTwoCarrierInfo-r16            OPTIONAL
}

UplinkTxDirectCurrentCarrierInfo-r16 ::=      SEQUENCE {
    servCellIndex-r16                             ServCellIndex,
    servCellInfo-r16                              CHOICE {
        bwp-Id-r16                                    BWP-Id,
        deactivatedCarrier-r16                        ENUMERATED {deactivated}
    }
}

UplinkTxDirectCurrentTwoCarrierInfo-r16 ::=   SEQUENCE {
    referenceCarrierIndex-r16                     ServCellIndex,
    shift7dot5kHz-r16                             BOOLEAN,
    txDirectCurrentLocation-r16                   INTEGER (0..3301)
}

-- TAG-UPLINKTXDIRECTCURRENTTWOCARRIERLIST-STOP
-- ASN1STOP







–	ZP-CSI-RS-Resource
The IE ZP-CSI-RS-Resource is used to configure a Zero-Power (ZP) CSI-RS resource (see TS 38.214 [19], clause 5.1.4.2). Reconfiguration of a ZP-CSI-RS-Resource between periodic or semi-persistent and aperiodic is not supported.
ZP-CSI-RS-Resource information element
-- ASN1START
-- TAG-ZP-CSI-RS-RESOURCE-START

ZP-CSI-RS-Resource ::=              SEQUENCE {
    zp-CSI-RS-ResourceId                ZP-CSI-RS-ResourceId,
    resourceMapping                     CSI-RS-ResourceMapping,
    periodicityAndOffset                CSI-ResourcePeriodicityAndOffset                OPTIONAL, --Cond PeriodicOrSemiPersistent
    ...
}

ZP-CSI-RS-ResourceId ::=            INTEGER (0..maxNrofZP-CSI-RS-Resources-1)

-- TAG-ZP-CSI-RS-RESOURCE-STOP
-- ASN1STOP





–	ZP-CSI-RS-ResourceSet
The IE ZP-CSI-RS-ResourceSet refers to a set of ZP-CSI-RS-Resources using their ZP-CSI-RS-ResourceIds.
ZP-CSI-RS-ResourceSet information element
-- ASN1START
-- TAG-ZP-CSI-RS-RESOURCESET-START

ZP-CSI-RS-ResourceSet ::=           SEQUENCE {
    zp-CSI-RS-ResourceSetId             ZP-CSI-RS-ResourceSetId,
    zp-CSI-RS-ResourceIdList            SEQUENCE (SIZE(1..maxNrofZP-CSI-RS-ResourcesPerSet)) OF ZP-CSI-RS-ResourceId,
    ...
}

-- TAG-ZP-CSI-RS-RESOURCESET-STOP
-- ASN1STOP



–	ZP-CSI-RS-ResourceSetId
The IE ZP-CSI-RS-ResourceSetId identifies a ZP-CSI-RS-ResourceSet.
ZP-CSI-RS-ResourceSetId information element
-- ASN1START
-- TAG-ZP-CSI-RS-RESOURCESETID-START

ZP-CSI-RS-ResourceSetId ::=                     INTEGER (0..maxNrofZP-CSI-RS-ResourceSets-1)

-- TAG-ZP-CSI-RS-RESOURCESETID-STOP
-- ASN1STOP

6.3.3	UE capability information elements
–	AccessStratumRelease
The IE AccessStratumRelease indicates the release supported by the UE.
AccessStratumRelease information element
-- ASN1START
-- TAG-ACCESSSTRATUMRELEASE-START

AccessStratumRelease ::= ENUMERATED {
                            rel15, rel16, rel17, rel18, spare4, spare3, spare2, spare1, ... }

-- TAG-ACCESSSTRATUMRELEASE-STOP
-- ASN1STOP

–	AerialParameters
The IE AerialParameters is used to convey the capabilities supported by the UE for aerial operation.
AerialParameters information element
-- ASN1START
-- TAG-AERIALPARAMETERS-START

AerialParameters-r18 ::=                      SEQUENCE {
    -- Support of Aerial UE features
    aerialUE-Capability-r18                       ENUMERATED {supported}                               OPTIONAL,
    -- Support of altitude measurement and event H1/H2-triggered reporting
    altitudeMeas-r18                              ENUMERATED {supported}                               OPTIONAL,
    -- Support of altitude based measurement configuration of SSB-ToMeasure
    altitudeBasedSSB-ToMeasure-r18                ENUMERATED {supported}                               OPTIONAL,
    -- Support of events A3H1, A3H2, A4H1, A4H2, A5H1, A5H2
    eventAxHy-r18                                 ENUMERATED {supported}                               OPTIONAL,
    -- Support of flight path reporting
    flightPathReporting-r18                       ENUMERATED {supported}                               OPTIONAL,
    -- Support of flight path availability indication via UAI
    flightPathAvailabilityIndicationUAI-r18       ENUMERATED {supported}                               OPTIONAL,
    -- Support of numberOfTriggeringCells for eventA3, eventA4, and eventA5, and additionally, if the UE supports eventAxHy-r18,
    -- support of numberOfTriggeringCells for eventA3H1, eventA3H2, eventA4H1, eventA4H2, eventA5H1, and eventA5H2
    multipleCellsMeasExtension-r18                ENUMERATED {supported}                               OPTIONAL,
    -- Support of handling aerial-specific Ns value(s) and Pmax list broadcasted by the cell
    nr-NS-PmaxListAerial-r18                      ENUMERATED {supported}                               OPTIONAL,
    -- Support of reporting only the measurement report corresponding to the event with the smallest value between the
    -- altitude of the UAV and the altitude threshold for which the altitude-related entering condition e.g. A3H1-2 is satisfied, when
    -- multiple events of the same type (Hx or AxHy) for the same MO (for AxHy) are triggered simultaneously.
    simulMultiTriggerSingleMeasReport-r18         ENUMERATED {supported}                               OPTIONAL,
    -- Support of A2X service(s) using PC5 Sidelink and dedicated resource pool for A2X service(s)
    sl-A2X-Service-r18                            ENUMERATED {brid, daa, bridAndDAA}                   OPTIONAL,
    ...
}

-- TAG-AERIALPARAMETERS-STOP
-- ASN1STOP

–	AppLayerMeasParameters
The IE AppLayerMeasParameters is used to convey the capabilities supported by the UE for application layer measurements.
AppLayerMeasParameters information element
-- ASN1START
-- TAG-APPLAYERMEASPARAMETERS-START

AppLayerMeasParameters-r17 ::=            SEQUENCE {
    qoe-Streaming-MeasReport-r17              ENUMERATED {supported}                                             OPTIONAL,
    qoe-MTSI-MeasReport-r17                   ENUMERATED {supported}                                             OPTIONAL,
    qoe-VR-MeasReport-r17                     ENUMERATED {supported}                                             OPTIONAL,
    ran-VisibleQoE-Streaming-MeasReport-r17   ENUMERATED {supported}                                             OPTIONAL,
    ran-VisibleQoE-VR-MeasReport-r17          ENUMERATED {supported}                                             OPTIONAL,
    ul-MeasurementReportAppLayer-Seg-r17      ENUMERATED {supported}                                             OPTIONAL,
    ...,
    [[
    qoe-IdleInactiveMeasReport-r18            ENUMERATED {supported}                                             OPTIONAL,
    qoe-NRDC-MeasReport-r18                   ENUMERATED {supported}                                             OPTIONAL,
    qoe-AdditionalMemoryMeasReport-r18        ENUMERATED {kB128, kB256, kB512, kB1024}                           OPTIONAL,
    qoe-PriorityBasedDiscarding-r18           ENUMERATED {supported}                                             OPTIONAL,
    srb5-r18                                  ENUMERATED {supported}                                             OPTIONAL
    ]]
}

-- TAG-APPLAYERMEASPARAMETERS-STOP
-- ASN1STOP

–	BandCombinationList
The IE BandCombinationList contains a list of NR CA, NR non-CA and/or MR-DC band combinations (also including DL only or UL only band).
BandCombinationList information element
-- ASN1START
-- TAG-BANDCOMBINATIONLIST-START

BandCombinationList ::=             SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxBandComb)) OF BandCombination

BandCombinationList-v1540 ::=       SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxBandComb)) OF BandCombination-v1540

BandCombinationList-v1550 ::=       SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxBandComb)) OF BandCombination-v1550

BandCombinationList-v1560 ::=       SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxBandComb)) OF BandCombination-v1560

BandCombinationList-v1570 ::=       SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxBandComb)) OF BandCombination-v1570

BandCombinationList-v1580 ::=       SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxBandComb)) OF BandCombination-v1580

BandCombinationList-v1590 ::=       SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxBandComb)) OF BandCombination-v1590

BandCombinationList-v15g0 ::=       SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxBandComb)) OF BandCombination-v15g0

BandCombinationList-v15n0 ::=       SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxBandComb)) OF BandCombination-v15n0

BandCombinationList-v1610 ::=       SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxBandComb)) OF BandCombination-v1610

BandCombinationList-v1630 ::=       SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxBandComb)) OF BandCombination-v1630

BandCombinationList-v1640 ::=       SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxBandComb)) OF BandCombination-v1640

BandCombinationList-v1650 ::=       SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxBandComb)) OF BandCombination-v1650

BandCombinationList-v1680 ::=       SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxBandComb)) OF BandCombination-v1680

BandCombinationList-v1690 ::=       SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxBandComb)) OF BandCombination-v1690

BandCombinationList-v16a0 ::=       SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxBandComb)) OF BandCombination-v16a0

BandCombinationList-v16j0 ::=       SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxBandComb)) OF BandCombination-v16j0

BandCombinationList-v1700 ::=       SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxBandComb)) OF BandCombination-v1700

BandCombinationList-v1720 ::=       SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxBandComb)) OF BandCombination-v1720

BandCombinationList-v1730 ::=       SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxBandComb)) OF BandCombination-v1730

BandCombinationList-v1740 ::=       SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxBandComb)) OF BandCombination-v1740

BandCombinationList-v1760 ::=       SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxBandComb)) OF BandCombination-v1760

BandCombinationList-v1770 ::=       SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxBandComb)) OF BandCombination-v1770

BandCombinationList-v1780 ::=       SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxBandComb)) OF BandCombination-v1780

BandCombinationList-v1790 ::=       SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxBandComb)) OF BandCombination-v1790

BandCombinationList-v17b0 ::=       SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxBandComb)) OF BandCombination-v17b0

BandCombinationList-v1800 ::=       SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxBandComb)) OF BandCombination-v1800

BandCombinationList-v1830 ::=       SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxBandComb)) OF BandCombination-v1830

BandCombinationList-v1840 ::=       SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxBandComb)) OF BandCombination-v1840

BandCombinationList-v1860 ::=       SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxBandComb)) OF BandCombination-v1860

BandCombinationList-UplinkTxSwitch-r16 ::= SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxBandComb)) OF BandCombination-UplinkTxSwitch-r16

BandCombinationList-UplinkTxSwitch-v1630 ::= SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxBandComb)) OF BandCombination-UplinkTxSwitch-v1630

BandCombinationList-UplinkTxSwitch-v1640 ::= SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxBandComb)) OF BandCombination-UplinkTxSwitch-v1640

BandCombinationList-UplinkTxSwitch-v1650 ::= SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxBandComb)) OF BandCombination-UplinkTxSwitch-v1650

BandCombinationList-UplinkTxSwitch-v1670 ::= SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxBandComb)) OF BandCombination-UplinkTxSwitch-v1670

BandCombinationList-UplinkTxSwitch-v1690 ::= SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxBandComb)) OF BandCombination-UplinkTxSwitch-v1690

BandCombinationList-UplinkTxSwitch-v16a0 ::= SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxBandComb)) OF BandCombination-UplinkTxSwitch-v16a0

BandCombinationList-UplinkTxSwitch-v16e0 ::= SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxBandComb)) OF BandCombination-UplinkTxSwitch-v16e0

BandCombinationList-UplinkTxSwitch-v16j0 ::= SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxBandComb)) OF BandCombination-UplinkTxSwitch-v16j0

BandCombinationList-UplinkTxSwitch-v1700 ::= SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxBandComb)) OF BandCombination-UplinkTxSwitch-v1700

BandCombinationList-UplinkTxSwitch-v1720 ::= SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxBandComb)) OF BandCombination-UplinkTxSwitch-v1720

BandCombinationList-UplinkTxSwitch-v1730 ::= SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxBandComb)) OF BandCombination-UplinkTxSwitch-v1730

BandCombinationList-UplinkTxSwitch-v1740 ::= SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxBandComb)) OF BandCombination-UplinkTxSwitch-v1740

BandCombinationList-UplinkTxSwitch-v1760 ::= SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxBandComb)) OF BandCombination-UplinkTxSwitch-v1760

BandCombinationList-UplinkTxSwitch-v1770 ::= SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxBandComb)) OF BandCombination-UplinkTxSwitch-v1770

BandCombinationList-UplinkTxSwitch-v1780 ::= SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxBandComb)) OF BandCombination-UplinkTxSwitch-v1780

BandCombinationList-UplinkTxSwitch-v1790 ::= SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxBandComb)) OF BandCombination-UplinkTxSwitch-v1790

BandCombinationList-UplinkTxSwitch-v17b0 ::= SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxBandComb)) OF BandCombination-UplinkTxSwitch-v17b0

BandCombinationList-UplinkTxSwitch-v1800 ::= SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxBandComb)) OF BandCombination-UplinkTxSwitch-v1800

BandCombinationList-UplinkTxSwitch-v1830 ::= SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxBandComb)) OF BandCombination-UplinkTxSwitch-v1830

BandCombinationList-UplinkTxSwitch-v1840 ::= SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxBandComb)) OF BandCombination-UplinkTxSwitch-v1840

BandCombinationList-UplinkTxSwitch-v1860 ::= SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxBandComb)) OF BandCombination-UplinkTxSwitch-v1860

BandCombination ::=                 SEQUENCE {
    bandList                            SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxSimultaneousBands)) OF BandParameters,
    featureSetCombination               FeatureSetCombinationId,
    ca-ParametersEUTRA                  CA-ParametersEUTRA                          OPTIONAL,
    ca-ParametersNR                     CA-ParametersNR                             OPTIONAL,
    mrdc-Parameters                     MRDC-Parameters                             OPTIONAL,
    supportedBandwidthCombinationSet    BIT STRING (SIZE (1..32))                   OPTIONAL,
    powerClass-v1530                    ENUMERATED {pc2}                            OPTIONAL
}

BandCombination-v1540::=            SEQUENCE {
    bandList-v1540                      SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxSimultaneousBands)) OF BandParameters-v1540,
    ca-ParametersNR-v1540               CA-ParametersNR-v1540                       OPTIONAL
}

BandCombination-v1550 ::=           SEQUENCE {
    ca-ParametersNR-v1550               CA-ParametersNR-v1550
}
BandCombination-v1560::=            SEQUENCE {
    ne-DC-BC                                ENUMERATED {supported}                 OPTIONAL,
    ca-ParametersNRDC                       CA-ParametersNRDC                      OPTIONAL,
    ca-ParametersEUTRA-v1560                CA-ParametersEUTRA-v1560               OPTIONAL,
    ca-ParametersNR-v1560                   CA-ParametersNR-v1560                  OPTIONAL
}

BandCombination-v1570 ::=           SEQUENCE {
    ca-ParametersEUTRA-v1570            CA-ParametersEUTRA-v1570
}

BandCombination-v1580 ::=           SEQUENCE {
    mrdc-Parameters-v1580               MRDC-Parameters-v1580
}

BandCombination-v1590::=            SEQUENCE {
    supportedBandwidthCombinationSetIntraENDC  BIT STRING (SIZE (1..32))           OPTIONAL,
    mrdc-Parameters-v1590                      MRDC-Parameters-v1590
}

BandCombination-v15g0::=            SEQUENCE {
    ca-ParametersNR-v15g0               CA-ParametersNR-v15g0                      OPTIONAL,
    ca-ParametersNRDC-v15g0             CA-ParametersNRDC-v15g0                    OPTIONAL,
    mrdc-Parameters-v15g0               MRDC-Parameters-v15g0                      OPTIONAL
}

BandCombination-v15n0::=            SEQUENCE {
    mrdc-Parameters-v15n0               MRDC-Parameters-v15n0
}

BandCombination-v1610 ::=           SEQUENCE {
    bandList-v1610                      SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxSimultaneousBands)) OF BandParameters-v1610  OPTIONAL,
    ca-ParametersNR-v1610               CA-ParametersNR-v1610                  OPTIONAL,
    ca-ParametersNRDC-v1610             CA-ParametersNRDC-v1610                OPTIONAL,
    powerClass-v1610                    ENUMERATED {pc1dot5}                   OPTIONAL,
    powerClassNRPart-r16                ENUMERATED {pc1, pc2, pc3, pc5}        OPTIONAL,
    featureSetCombinationDAPS-r16       FeatureSetCombinationId                OPTIONAL,
    mrdc-Parameters-v1620               MRDC-Parameters-v1620                  OPTIONAL
}

BandCombination-v1630 ::=                   SEQUENCE {
    ca-ParametersNR-v1630                       CA-ParametersNR-v1630                                             OPTIONAL,
    ca-ParametersNRDC-v1630                     CA-ParametersNRDC-v1630                                           OPTIONAL,
    mrdc-Parameters-v1630                       MRDC-Parameters-v1630                                             OPTIONAL,
    supportedTxBandCombListPerBC-Sidelink-r16   BIT STRING (SIZE (1..maxBandComb))                                OPTIONAL,
    supportedRxBandCombListPerBC-Sidelink-r16   BIT STRING (SIZE (1..maxBandComb))                                OPTIONAL,
    scalingFactorTxSidelink-r16                 SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxBandComb)) OF ScalingFactorSidelink-r16     OPTIONAL,
    scalingFactorRxSidelink-r16                 SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxBandComb)) OF ScalingFactorSidelink-r16     OPTIONAL
}

BandCombination-v1640 ::=                   SEQUENCE {
    ca-ParametersNR-v1640                       CA-ParametersNR-v1640                                             OPTIONAL,
    ca-ParametersNRDC-v1640                     CA-ParametersNRDC-v1640                                           OPTIONAL
}

BandCombination-v1650 ::=          SEQUENCE {
    ca-ParametersNRDC-v1650             CA-ParametersNRDC-v1650                 OPTIONAL
}

BandCombination-v1680 ::=          SEQUENCE {
    intrabandConcurrentOperationPowerClass-r16 SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxBandComb)) OF IntraBandPowerClass-r16     OPTIONAL
}

BandCombination-v1690 ::=          SEQUENCE {
    dummy                              CA-ParametersNR-v1690                 OPTIONAL
}

BandCombination-v16a0 ::=          SEQUENCE {
    ca-ParametersNR-v16a0              CA-ParametersNR-v16a0                    OPTIONAL,
    ca-ParametersNRDC-v16a0            CA-ParametersNRDC-v16a0                  OPTIONAL
}

BandCombination-v16j0::=           SEQUENCE {
    ca-ParametersNR-v16j0              CA-ParametersNR-v1690                    OPTIONAL,
    ca-ParametersNRDC-v16j0            CA-ParametersNRDC-v16j0                  OPTIONAL
}

BandCombination-v1700 ::=          SEQUENCE {
    ca-ParametersNR-v1700              CA-ParametersNR-v1700                    OPTIONAL,
    ca-ParametersNRDC-v1700            CA-ParametersNRDC-v1700                  OPTIONAL,
    mrdc-Parameters-v1700              MRDC-Parameters-v1700                    OPTIONAL,
    bandList-v1710                      SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxSimultaneousBands)) OF BandParameters-v1710  OPTIONAL,
    supportedBandCombListPerBC-SL-RelayDiscovery-r17      BIT STRING (SIZE (1..maxBandComb))               OPTIONAL,
    supportedBandCombListPerBC-SL-NonRelayDiscovery-r17   BIT STRING (SIZE (1..maxBandComb))               OPTIONAL
}

BandCombination-v1720 ::=          SEQUENCE {
    ca-ParametersNR-v1720              CA-ParametersNR-v1720                    OPTIONAL,
    ca-ParametersNRDC-v1720            CA-ParametersNRDC-v1720                  OPTIONAL
}

BandCombination-v1730 ::=          SEQUENCE {
    ca-ParametersNR-v1730              CA-ParametersNR-v1730                    OPTIONAL,
    ca-ParametersNRDC-v1730            CA-ParametersNRDC-v1730                  OPTIONAL,
    bandList-v1730                     SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxSimultaneousBands)) OF BandParameters-v1730  OPTIONAL
}

BandCombination-v1740 ::=          SEQUENCE {
    dummy                              CA-ParametersNR-v1740                    OPTIONAL
}

BandCombination-v1760 ::=          SEQUENCE {
    ca-ParametersNR-v1760              CA-ParametersNR-v1760,
    ca-ParametersNRDC-v1760            CA-ParametersNRDC-v1760
}

BandCombination-v1770::=            SEQUENCE {
    bandList-v1770                      SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxSimultaneousBands)) OF BandParameters-v1770,
    mrdc-Parameters-v1770               MRDC-Parameters-v1770                      OPTIONAL,
    ca-ParametersNR-v1770               CA-ParametersNR-v1770                      OPTIONAL
}

BandCombination-v1780 ::=          SEQUENCE {
    ca-ParametersNR-v1780               CA-ParametersNR-v1780                                              OPTIONAL,
    ca-ParametersNRDC-v1780             CA-ParametersNRDC-v1780                                            OPTIONAL,
    bandList-v1780                      SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxSimultaneousBands)) OF BandParameters-v1780  OPTIONAL,
    mrdc-Parameters-v1780               MRDC-Parameters-v1770                                              OPTIONAL
}

BandCombination-v1790 ::=                    SEQUENCE {
    supportedIntraENDC-BandCombinationList-r17   SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxNrofIntraEndc-Components-r17)) OF SupportedIntraENDC-BandCombination-r17           OPTIONAL
}

BandCombination-v17b0::=           SEQUENCE {
    ca-ParametersNR-v17b0              CA-ParametersNR-v1740                       OPTIONAL,
    ca-ParametersNRDC-v17b0            CA-ParametersNRDC-v17b0                     OPTIONAL
}

BandCombination-v1800 ::=          SEQUENCE {
    ca-ParametersNR-v1800               CA-ParametersNR-v1800                                                  OPTIONAL,
    ca-ParametersNRDC-v1800             CA-ParametersNRDC-v1800                                                OPTIONAL,
    supportedBandCombListPerBC-SL-U2U-RelayDiscovery-r18   BIT STRING (SIZE (1..maxBandComb))                  OPTIONAL,
    bandList-v1810                      SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxSimultaneousBands)) OF BandParameters-v1810      OPTIONAL
}

BandCombination-v1830 ::=          SEQUENCE {
    ca-ParametersNR-v1830               CA-ParametersNR-v1830                                                  OPTIONAL,
    ca-ParametersNRDC-v1830             CA-ParametersNRDC-v1830                                                OPTIONAL
}

BandCombination-v1840 ::=          SEQUENCE {
    mrdc-Parameters-v1840               MRDC-Parameters-v1840                                                  OPTIONAL
}

BandCombination-v1860 ::=          SEQUENCE {
    ca-ParametersNR-v1860              CA-ParametersNR-v1860                                                   OPTIONAL
}

BandCombination-UplinkTxSwitch-r16 ::= SEQUENCE {
    bandCombination-r16                 BandCombination,
    bandCombination-v1540               BandCombination-v1540                      OPTIONAL,
    bandCombination-v1560               BandCombination-v1560                      OPTIONAL,
    bandCombination-v1570               BandCombination-v1570                      OPTIONAL,
    bandCombination-v1580               BandCombination-v1580                      OPTIONAL,
    bandCombination-v1590               BandCombination-v1590                      OPTIONAL,
    bandCombination-v1610               BandCombination-v1610                      OPTIONAL,
    supportedBandPairListNR-r16         SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxULTxSwitchingBandPairs)) OF ULTxSwitchingBandPair-r16,
    uplinkTxSwitching-OptionSupport-r16 ENUMERATED {switchedUL, dualUL, both}      OPTIONAL,
    uplinkTxSwitching-PowerBoosting-r16 ENUMERATED {supported}                     OPTIONAL,
    ...,
    [[
    -- R4 16-5 UL-MIMO coherence capability for dynamic Tx switching between 3CC 1Tx-2Tx switching
    uplinkTxSwitching-PUSCH-TransCoherence-r16     ENUMERATED {nonCoherent, fullCoherent}   OPTIONAL
    ]]
}

BandCombination-UplinkTxSwitch-v1630 ::=    SEQUENCE {
    bandCombination-v1630                       BandCombination-v1630              OPTIONAL
}

BandCombination-UplinkTxSwitch-v1640 ::=    SEQUENCE {
    bandCombination-v1640                       BandCombination-v1640              OPTIONAL
}

BandCombination-UplinkTxSwitch-v1650 ::= SEQUENCE {
    bandCombination-v1650               BandCombination-v1650                      OPTIONAL
}

BandCombination-UplinkTxSwitch-v1670 ::= SEQUENCE {
    bandCombination-v15g0                    BandCombination-v15g0                 OPTIONAL
}

BandCombination-UplinkTxSwitch-v1690 ::=  SEQUENCE {
    bandCombination-v1690                     BandCombination-v1690                OPTIONAL
}

BandCombination-UplinkTxSwitch-v16a0 ::= SEQUENCE {
    bandCombination-v16a0                    BandCombination-v16a0                 OPTIONAL
}

BandCombination-UplinkTxSwitch-v16e0 ::= SEQUENCE {
    bandCombination-v15n0                    BandCombination-v15n0                 OPTIONAL
}

BandCombination-UplinkTxSwitch-v16j0 ::= SEQUENCE {
    bandCombination-v16j0                    BandCombination-v16j0                 OPTIONAL
}

BandCombination-UplinkTxSwitch-v1700 ::= SEQUENCE {
    bandCombination-v1700                    BandCombination-v1700                      OPTIONAL,
    -- R4 16-1/16-2/16-3 Dynamic Tx switching between 2CC/3CC 2Tx-2Tx/1Tx-2Tx switching
    supportedBandPairListNR-v1700            SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxULTxSwitchingBandPairs)) OF ULTxSwitchingBandPair-v1700  OPTIONAL,
    -- R4 16-6: UL-MIMO coherence capability for dynamic Tx switching between 2Tx-2Tx switching
    uplinkTxSwitchingBandParametersList-v1700 SEQUENCE (SIZE (1.. maxSimultaneousBands)) OF UplinkTxSwitchingBandParameters-v1700  OPTIONAL
}

BandCombination-UplinkTxSwitch-v1720 ::= SEQUENCE {
    bandCombination-v1720                    BandCombination-v1720                 OPTIONAL,
    uplinkTxSwitching-OptionSupport2T2T-r17  ENUMERATED {switchedUL, dualUL, both} OPTIONAL
}

BandCombination-UplinkTxSwitch-v1730 ::= SEQUENCE {
    bandCombination-v1730                    BandCombination-v1730                 OPTIONAL
}

BandCombination-UplinkTxSwitch-v1740 ::= SEQUENCE {
    bandCombination-v1740                    BandCombination-v1740                 OPTIONAL
}

BandCombination-UplinkTxSwitch-v1760 ::= SEQUENCE {
    bandCombination-v1760                    BandCombination-v1760                 OPTIONAL
}

BandCombination-UplinkTxSwitch-v1770 ::= SEQUENCE {
    bandCombination-v1770                    BandCombination-v1770                 OPTIONAL
}

BandCombination-UplinkTxSwitch-v1780 ::= SEQUENCE {
    bandCombination-v1780                    BandCombination-v1780                 OPTIONAL
}

BandCombination-UplinkTxSwitch-v1790 ::= SEQUENCE {
    bandCombination-v1790                    BandCombination-v1790                 OPTIONAL
}

BandCombination-UplinkTxSwitch-v17b0 ::= SEQUENCE {
    bandCombination-v17b0                    BandCombination-v17b0                 OPTIONAL
}

BandCombination-UplinkTxSwitch-v1800 ::=     SEQUENCE {
    bandCombination-v1800                        BandCombination-v1800                                                         OPTIONAL,
    supportedBandPairListNR-r18                  SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxULTxSwitchingBandPairs)) OF ULTxSwitchingBandPair-r18   OPTIONAL,
    -- R1 49-Y: Minimum separation time for two uplink switching on more than 2 bands within any two consecutive reference slots
    uplinkTxSwitchingMinimumSeparationTime-r18   ENUMERATED {n0us, n500us}                                                     OPTIONAL,
    -- R4 38-4: Switching Period for unaffected Band for Dual UL
    uplinkTxSwitchingAdditionalPeriodDualUL-List-r18 SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxULTxSwitchingBetweenBandPairs-r18)) OF
                                                               UplinkTxSwitchingAdditionalPeriodDualUL-r18                     OPTIONAL,
    -- R4 38-6: Switching period restriction for fallback band combination
    switchingPeriodRestriction-r18               ENUMERATED {true}                                                             OPTIONAL
}

BandCombination-UplinkTxSwitch-v1830 ::=     SEQUENCE {
    bandCombination-v1830                        BandCombination-v1830                                                         OPTIONAL
}

BandCombination-UplinkTxSwitch-v1840 ::= SEQUENCE {
    bandCombination-v1840                    BandCombination-v1840                                                          OPTIONAL,
    supportedBandPairListNR-v1840            SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxULTxSwitchingBandPairs)) OF ULTxSwitchingBandPair-v1840  OPTIONAL
}

BandCombination-UplinkTxSwitch-v1860 ::= SEQUENCE {
    bandCombination-v1860                    BandCombination-v1860                                                          OPTIONAL
}

ULTxSwitchingBandPair-r16 ::=       SEQUENCE {
    bandIndexUL1-r16                    INTEGER(1..maxSimultaneousBands),
    bandIndexUL2-r16                    INTEGER(1..maxSimultaneousBands),
    uplinkTxSwitchingPeriod-r16         ENUMERATED {n35us, n140us, n210us},
    uplinkTxSwitching-DL-Interruption-r16 BIT STRING (SIZE(1..maxSimultaneousBands)) OPTIONAL
}

ULTxSwitchingBandPair-v1700 ::=     SEQUENCE {
    uplinkTxSwitchingPeriod2T2T-r17     ENUMERATED {n35us, n140us, n210us}     OPTIONAL
}

ULTxSwitchingBandPair-r18 ::=                             SEQUENCE {
    bandIndexUL1-r18                                           INTEGER(1..maxSimultaneousBands),
    bandIndexUL2-r18                                           INTEGER(1..maxSimultaneousBands),
    -- R1 49-X: Supported switching option for each band pair in the band combination for UL Tx switching across more than 2 bands
    uplinkTxSwitchingOptionForBandPair-r18                     ENUMERATED {switchedUL, dualUL, both},
    -- R4 38-1: Switching period for dynamic UL Tx switching across up to 4 bands in case of inter-band CA, SUL up to two TAGs
    uplinkTxSwitchingPeriodForBandPair-r18                     SEQUENCE {
          switchingPeriodFor2T-r18                                 ENUMERATED {n35us, n140us, n210us}                       OPTIONAL,
          switchingPeriodFor1T-r18                                 ENUMERATED {n35us, n140us, n210us}
    },
    -- R4 38-2: Application of DL interruptions due to dynamic UL Tx switching
    uplinkTxSwitching-DL-Interruption-r18                      BIT STRING (SIZE(1..maxSimultaneousBands))                   OPTIONAL,
    -- R4 38-3: Switching Period for unaffected Band for Dual UL
    uplinkTxSwitchingPeriodUnaffectedBandDualUL-List-r18       SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxSimultaneousBands-2-r18)) OF
                                                                         SwitchingPeriodUnaffectedBandDualUL-r18            OPTIONAL
}

ULTxSwitchingBandPair-v1840 ::=     SEQUENCE {
    -- R1 49-Z: Support of 2-band configuration of 1T-1T UL Tx switching by using Rel-18 UL Tx switching configurations
    configured1T1T-OnTwoBands-r18       ENUMERATED {supported}                                                              OPTIONAL
}

UplinkTxSwitchingBandParameters-v1700 ::=                 SEQUENCE {
    bandIndex-r17                                              INTEGER(1..maxSimultaneousBands),
    -- R4 38-5: UL-MIMO coherence capability for dynamic Tx switching between 2Tx-2Tx switching among up to 4 bands
    uplinkTxSwitching2T2T-PUSCH-TransCoherence-r17             ENUMERATED {nonCoherent, fullCoherent}                       OPTIONAL
}

UplinkTxSwitchingAdditionalPeriodDualUL-r18::=            SEQUENCE {
    uplinkTxSwitchingBetweenBandPairs-r18                     SEQUENCE {
        bandPairIndex1-r18                                        INTEGER(1.. maxULTxSwitchingBandPairs),
        anotherBandPairOrBand-r18                                 CHOICE {
            bandPairIndex2-r18                                        INTEGER(1.. maxULTxSwitchingBandPairs),
            bandIndex-r18                                             INTEGER(1..maxSimultaneousBands)
        }
    },
    -- R4 38-4: Additional switching Period for switching case across three or four bands for Dual UL
    switchingAdditionalPeriodDualUL-r18                   ENUMERATED {n35us, n140us, n210us}
}

SwitchingPeriodUnaffectedBandDualUL-r18::=                SEQUENCE {
     bandIndexUnaffected-r18                                   INTEGER(1..maxSimultaneousBands),
     periodUnaffectedBandDualUL-r18                            CHOICE {
         maintainedUL-Trans-r18                                    NULL,
         periodOnULBands-r18                                       ENUMERATED {n35us, n140us, n210us}
     }
}


BandParameters ::=                      CHOICE {
    eutra                               SEQUENCE {
        bandEUTRA                           FreqBandIndicatorEUTRA,
        ca-BandwidthClassDL-EUTRA           CA-BandwidthClassEUTRA                 OPTIONAL,
        ca-BandwidthClassUL-EUTRA           CA-BandwidthClassEUTRA                 OPTIONAL
    },
    nr                                  SEQUENCE {
        bandNR                              FreqBandIndicatorNR,
        ca-BandwidthClassDL-NR              CA-BandwidthClassNR                    OPTIONAL,
        ca-BandwidthClassUL-NR              CA-BandwidthClassNR                    OPTIONAL
    }
}

BandParameters-v1540 ::=            SEQUENCE {
    srs-CarrierSwitch                   CHOICE {
        nr                                  SEQUENCE {
            srs-SwitchingTimesListNR            SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxSimultaneousBands)) OF SRS-SwitchingTimeNR
        },
        eutra                               SEQUENCE {
            srs-SwitchingTimesListEUTRA         SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxSimultaneousBands)) OF SRS-SwitchingTimeEUTRA
        }
    }                                                                              OPTIONAL,
    srs-TxSwitch                    SEQUENCE {
        supportedSRS-TxPortSwitch       ENUMERATED {t1r2, t1r4, t2r4, t1r4-t2r4, t1r1, t2r2, t4r4, notSupported},
        txSwitchImpactToRx              INTEGER (1..32)                            OPTIONAL,
        txSwitchWithAnotherBand         INTEGER (1..32)                            OPTIONAL
    }                                                                              OPTIONAL
}

BandParameters-v1610 ::=         SEQUENCE {
    srs-TxSwitch-v1610               SEQUENCE {
        supportedSRS-TxPortSwitch-v1610  ENUMERATED {t1r1-t1r2, t1r1-t1r2-t1r4, t1r1-t1r2-t2r2-t2r4, t1r1-t1r2-t2r2-t1r4-t2r4,
                                                         t1r1-t2r2, t1r1-t2r2-t4r4}
    }                                                                              OPTIONAL
}

BandParameters-v1710 ::=         SEQUENCE {
    -- R1 23-8-3	SRS Antenna switching for >4Rx
    srs-AntennaSwitchingBeyond4RX-r17                     SEQUENCE {
        -- 1. Support of SRS antenna switching xTyR with y>4
        supportedSRS-TxPortSwitchBeyond4Rx-r17                BIT STRING (SIZE (11)),
        -- 2. Report the entry number of the first-listed band with UL in the band combination that affects this DL
        entryNumberAffectBeyond4Rx-r17                        INTEGER (1..32)      OPTIONAL,
        -- 3. Report the entry number of the first-listed band with UL in the band combination that switches together with this UL
        entryNumberSwitchBeyond4Rx-r17                        INTEGER (1..32)      OPTIONAL
    }                                                                              OPTIONAL
}

BandParameters-v1730 ::= SEQUENCE {
    -- R1 39-3-2	Affected bands for inter-band CA during SRS carrier switching
    srs-SwitchingAffectedBandsListNR-r17    SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxSimultaneousBands)) OF SRS-SwitchingAffectedBandsNR-r17
}

BandParameters-v1770 ::=         SEQUENCE {
    ca-BandwidthClassDL-NR-r17       CA-BandwidthClassNR-r17                    OPTIONAL,
    ca-BandwidthClassUL-NR-r17       CA-BandwidthClassNR-r17                    OPTIONAL
}

BandParameters-v1780 ::=         SEQUENCE {
    ca-BandwidthClassDL-NR-r17       CA-BandwidthClassNR-r17                    OPTIONAL,
    ca-BandwidthClassUL-NR-r17       CA-BandwidthClassNR-r17                    OPTIONAL,
    supportedAggBW-FR2-r17           SEQUENCE {
        supportedAggBW-DL-r17            SupportedAggBandwidth-r17               OPTIONAL,
        supportedAggBW-UL-r17            SupportedAggBandwidth-r17               OPTIONAL
    }    OPTIONAL
}

BandParameters-v1810 ::=         SEQUENCE {
    -- R1 40-5-4: SRS 8 Tx ports-antenna switching
    srs-AntennaSwitching8T8R-r18     SEQUENCE {
        antennaSwitch8T8R-r18            ENUMERATED {noTdm, tdmAndNoTdm}        OPTIONAL,
        downgradeConfig-r18          CHOICE {
              empty-r18                  NULL,
              downgrade-r18              BIT STRING (SIZE (11))
        }                                                                       OPTIONAL,
        entryNumberAffect-r18        INTEGER (1..32)                            OPTIONAL,
        entryNumberSwitch-r18        INTEGER (1..32)                            OPTIONAL
    }                                                                           OPTIONAL
}

ScalingFactorSidelink-r16 ::=       ENUMERATED {f0p4, f0p75, f0p8, f1}

IntraBandPowerClass-r16 ::=         ENUMERATED {pc2, pc3, spare6, spare5, spare4, spare3, spare2, spare1}

SRS-SwitchingAffectedBandsNR-r17 ::= BIT STRING (SIZE (1..maxSimultaneousBands))

SupportedIntraENDC-BandCombination-r17 ::=       SEQUENCE {
    supportedBandwidthCombinationSetIntraENDC-v1790  BIT STRING (SIZE (1..32))           OPTIONAL,
    mrdc-Parameters-v1790                            MRDC-Parameters-v1790               OPTIONAL
}

-- TAG-BANDCOMBINATIONLIST-STOP
-- ASN1STOP



–	BandCombinationListSidelinkEUTRA-NR
The IE BandCombinationListSidelinkEUTRA-NR contains a list of V2X sidelink and NR sidelink band combinations.
BandCombinationListSidelinkEUTRA-NR information element
-- ASN1START
-- TAG-BANDCOMBINATIONLISTSIDELINKEUTRANR-START

BandCombinationListSidelinkEUTRA-NR-r16 ::= SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxBandComb)) OF BandCombinationParametersSidelinkEUTRA-NR-r16

BandCombinationListSidelinkEUTRA-NR-v1630 ::= SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxBandComb)) OF BandCombinationParametersSidelinkEUTRA-NR-v1630

BandCombinationListSidelinkEUTRA-NR-v1710 ::= SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxBandComb)) OF BandCombinationParametersSidelinkEUTRA-NR-v1710

BandCombinationParametersSidelinkEUTRA-NR-r16 ::= SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxSimultaneousBands)) OF BandParametersSidelinkEUTRA-NR-r16

BandCombinationParametersSidelinkEUTRA-NR-v1630 ::= SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxSimultaneousBands)) OF BandParametersSidelinkEUTRA-NR-v1630

BandCombinationParametersSidelinkEUTRA-NR-v1710 ::= SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxSimultaneousBands)) OF BandParametersSidelinkEUTRA-NR-v1710

BandParametersSidelinkEUTRA-NR-r16 ::= CHOICE {
    eutra                                  SEQUENCE {
        bandParametersSidelinkEUTRA1-r16       OCTET STRING                         OPTIONAL,
        bandParametersSidelinkEUTRA2-r16       OCTET STRING                         OPTIONAL
    },
    nr                                     SEQUENCE {
        bandParametersSidelinkNR-r16           BandParametersSidelink-r16
    }
}

BandParametersSidelinkEUTRA-NR-v1630 ::= CHOICE {
    eutra                                    NULL,
    nr                                       SEQUENCE {
        tx-Sidelink-r16                          ENUMERATED {supported}                          OPTIONAL,
        rx-Sidelink-r16                          ENUMERATED {supported}                          OPTIONAL,
        sl-CrossCarrierScheduling-r16            ENUMERATED {supported}                          OPTIONAL
    }
}

BandParametersSidelinkEUTRA-NR-v1710 ::= CHOICE {
    eutra                                    NULL,
    nr                                       SEQUENCE {
        --32-4
        sl-TransmissionMode2-PartialSensing-r17  SEQUENCE {
            harq-TxProcessModeTwoSidelink-r17        ENUMERATED {n8, n16},
            scs-CP-PatternTxSidelinkModeTwo-r17      CHOICE {
                fr1-r17                                  SEQUENCE {
                    scs-15kHz-r17                            BIT STRING (SIZE (16))                OPTIONAL,
                    scs-30kHz-r17                            BIT STRING (SIZE (16))                OPTIONAL,
                    scs-60kHz-r17                            BIT STRING (SIZE (16))                OPTIONAL
                },
                fr2-r17                                  SEQUENCE {
                    scs-60kHz-r17                            BIT STRING (SIZE (16))                OPTIONAL,
                    scs-120kHz-r17                           BIT STRING (SIZE (16))                OPTIONAL
                }
            }                                                                                      OPTIONAL,
            extendedCP-Mode2PartialSensing-r17           ENUMERATED {supported}                    OPTIONAL,
            dl-openLoopPC-Sidelink-r17                   ENUMERATED {supported}                    OPTIONAL
        }                                                                                          OPTIONAL,
        --32-2a:  Receiving NR sidelink of PSFCH
        rx-sidelinkPSFCH-r17                     ENUMERATED {n5, n15, n25, n32, n35, n45, n50, n64} OPTIONAL,
        --32-5a-1
        tx-IUC-Scheme1-Mode2Sidelink-r17         ENUMERATED {supported}                            OPTIONAL,
        --32-5b-1
        tx-IUC-Scheme2-Mode2Sidelink-r17         ENUMERATED {n4, n8, n16}                          OPTIONAL
    }
}

BandParametersSidelink-r16 ::= SEQUENCE {
    freqBandSidelink-r16           FreqBandIndicatorNR
}

-- TAG-BANDCOMBINATIONLISTSIDELINKEUTRANR-STOP
-- ASN1STOP



–	BandCombinationListSL-Discovery
The IE BandCombinationListSL-Discovery contains a list of NR Sidelink discovery band combinations.
BandCombinationListSidelinkSL-Discovery information element
-- ASN1START
-- TAG-BANDCOMBINATIONLISTSLDISCOVERY-START

BandCombinationListSL-Discovery-r17 ::= SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxSimultaneousBands)) OF BandParametersSidelinkDiscovery-r17

BandParametersSidelinkDiscovery-r17 ::= SEQUENCE {
    sl-CrossCarrierScheduling-r17            ENUMERATED {supported}                            OPTIONAL,
    --R1 32-4: Transmitting NR sidelink mode 2 with partial sensing
    sl-TransmissionMode2-PartialSensing-r17  SEQUENCE {
        harq-TxProcessModeTwoSidelink-r17        ENUMERATED {n8, n16},
        scs-CP-PatternTxSidelinkModeTwo-r17      CHOICE {
            fr1-r17                                  SEQUENCE {
                scs-15kHz-r17                            BIT STRING (SIZE (16))                OPTIONAL,
                scs-30kHz-r17                            BIT STRING (SIZE (16))                OPTIONAL,
                scs-60kHz-r17                            BIT STRING (SIZE (16))                OPTIONAL
            },
            fr2-r17                                  SEQUENCE {
                scs-60kHz-r17                            BIT STRING (SIZE (16))                OPTIONAL,
                scs-120kHz-r17                           BIT STRING (SIZE (16))                OPTIONAL
            }
        }                                                                                      OPTIONAL,
        extendedCP-Mode2PartialSensing-r17           ENUMERATED {supported}                    OPTIONAL,
        dl-openLoopPC-Sidelink-r17                   ENUMERATED {supported}                    OPTIONAL
    }                                                                                          OPTIONAL,
    --R1 32-5a-1: Transmitting Inter-UE coordination scheme 1 in NR sidelink mode 2
    tx-IUC-Scheme1-Mode2Sidelink-r17         ENUMERATED {supported}                            OPTIONAL
}

-- TAG-BANDCOMBINATIONLISTSLDISCOVERY-STOP
-- ASN1STOP


–	CA-BandwidthClassEUTRA
The IE CA-BandwidthClassEUTRA indicates the E-UTRA CA bandwidth class as defined in TS 36.101 [22], table 5.6A-1.
CA-BandwidthClassEUTRA information element
-- ASN1START
-- TAG-CA-BANDWIDTHCLASSEUTRA-START

CA-BandwidthClassEUTRA ::=          ENUMERATED {a, b, c, d, e, f, ...}

-- TAG-CA-BANDWIDTHCLASSEUTRA-STOP
-- ASN1STOP

–	CA-BandwidthClassNR
The IE CA-BandwidthClassNR indicates the NR CA bandwidth class as defined in TS 38.101-1 [15], table 5.3A.5-1 and TS 38.101-2 [39], table 5.3A.4-1.
CA-BandwidthClassNR information element
-- ASN1START
-- TAG-CA-BANDWIDTHCLASSNR-START

-- R4 17-6: new CA BW Classes R2-R12
-- R4 17-7: new CA BW Classes V, W

CA-BandwidthClassNR ::=             ENUMERATED {a, b, c, d, e, f, g, h, i, j, k, l, m, n, o, p, q, ...,r2-v1730, r3-v1730, r4-v1730, r5-v1730, r6-v1730, r7-v1730, r8-v1730, r9-v1730, r10-v1730, r11-v1730, r12-v1730,v-v1770, w-v1770 }

CA-BandwidthClassNR-r17 ::=         ENUMERATED {r, s, t, u, ...}

-- TAG-CA-BANDWIDTHCLASSNR-STOP
-- ASN1STOP

–	CA-ParametersEUTRA
The IE CA-ParametersEUTRA contains the E-UTRA part of band combination parameters for a given MR-DC band combination.
NOTE:	If additional E-UTRA band combination parameters are defined in TS 36.331 [10], which are supported for MR-DC, they will be defined here as well.
CA-ParametersEUTRA information element
-- ASN1START
-- TAG-CA-PARAMETERSEUTRA-START

CA-ParametersEUTRA ::=                          SEQUENCE {
    multipleTimingAdvance                           ENUMERATED {supported}                          OPTIONAL,
    simultaneousRx-Tx                               ENUMERATED {supported}                          OPTIONAL,
    supportedNAICS-2CRS-AP                          BIT STRING (SIZE (1..8))                        OPTIONAL,
    additionalRx-Tx-PerformanceReq                  ENUMERATED {supported}                          OPTIONAL,
    ue-CA-PowerClass-N                              ENUMERATED {class2}                             OPTIONAL,
    supportedBandwidthCombinationSetEUTRA-v1530     BIT STRING (SIZE (1..32))                       OPTIONAL,
    ...
}

CA-ParametersEUTRA-v1560 ::=                    SEQUENCE {
    fd-MIMO-TotalWeightedLayers                     INTEGER (2..128)                                OPTIONAL
}

CA-ParametersEUTRA-v1570 ::=                    SEQUENCE {
    dl-1024QAM-TotalWeightedLayers                  INTEGER (0..10)                                 OPTIONAL
}

-- TAG-CA-PARAMETERSEUTRA-STOP
-- ASN1STOP

–	CA-ParametersNR
The IE CA-ParametersNR contains carrier aggregation and inter-frequency DAPS handover related capabilities that are defined per band combination.
CA-ParametersNR information element
-- ASN1START
-- TAG-CA-PARAMETERSNR-START

CA-ParametersNR ::=                 SEQUENCE {
    dummy                                         ENUMERATED {supported}      OPTIONAL,
    parallelTxSRS-PUCCH-PUSCH                     ENUMERATED {supported}      OPTIONAL,
    parallelTxPRACH-SRS-PUCCH-PUSCH               ENUMERATED {supported}      OPTIONAL,
    simultaneousRxTxInterBandCA                   ENUMERATED {supported}      OPTIONAL,
    simultaneousRxTxSUL                           ENUMERATED {supported}      OPTIONAL,
    diffNumerologyAcrossPUCCH-Group               ENUMERATED {supported}      OPTIONAL,
    diffNumerologyWithinPUCCH-GroupSmallerSCS     ENUMERATED {supported}      OPTIONAL,
    supportedNumberTAG                            ENUMERATED {n2, n3, n4}     OPTIONAL,
    ...
}

CA-ParametersNR-v1540 ::=           SEQUENCE {
    simultaneousSRS-AssocCSI-RS-AllCC                       INTEGER (5..32)         OPTIONAL,
    csi-RS-IM-ReceptionForFeedbackPerBandComb               SEQUENCE {
        maxNumberSimultaneousNZP-CSI-RS-ActBWP-AllCC            INTEGER (1..64)     OPTIONAL,
        totalNumberPortsSimultaneousNZP-CSI-RS-ActBWP-AllCC     INTEGER (2..256)    OPTIONAL
    }                                                                               OPTIONAL,
    simultaneousCSI-ReportsAllCC                            INTEGER (5..32)         OPTIONAL,
    dualPA-Architecture                                     ENUMERATED {supported}  OPTIONAL
}

CA-ParametersNR-v1550 ::=           SEQUENCE {
    dummy                               ENUMERATED {supported}                      OPTIONAL
}

CA-ParametersNR-v1560 ::=           SEQUENCE {
    diffNumerologyWithinPUCCH-GroupLargerSCS      ENUMERATED {supported}            OPTIONAL
}

CA-ParametersNR-v15g0 ::=           SEQUENCE {
    simultaneousRxTxInterBandCAPerBandPair        SimultaneousRxTxPerBandPair       OPTIONAL,
    simultaneousRxTxSULPerBandPair                SimultaneousRxTxPerBandPair       OPTIONAL
}

CA-ParametersNR-v1610 ::=           SEQUENCE {
     -- R1 9-3: Parallel MsgA and SRS/PUCCH/PUSCH transmissions across CCs in inter-band CA
    parallelTxMsgA-SRS-PUCCH-PUSCH-r16                ENUMERATED {supported}        OPTIONAL,
     -- R1 9-4: MsgA operation in a band combination including SUL
    msgA-SUL-r16                                      ENUMERATED {supported}        OPTIONAL,
    -- R1 10-9c: Joint search space group switching across multiple cells
    jointSearchSpaceSwitchAcrossCells-r16             ENUMERATED {supported}        OPTIONAL,
    -- R1 14-5: Half-duplex UE behaviour in TDD CA for same SCS
    half-DuplexTDD-CA-SameSCS-r16                     ENUMERATED {supported}        OPTIONAL,
    -- R1 18-4: SCell dormancy within active time
    scellDormancyWithinActiveTime-r16                 ENUMERATED {supported}        OPTIONAL,
    -- R1 18-4a: SCell dormancy outside active time
    scellDormancyOutsideActiveTime-r16                ENUMERATED {supported}        OPTIONAL,
    -- R1 18-6: Cross-carrier A-CSI RS triggering with different SCS
    crossCarrierA-CSI-trigDiffSCS-r16                 ENUMERATED {higherA-CSI-SCS,lowerA-CSI-SCS,both}   OPTIONAL,
    -- R1 18-6a: Default QCL assumption for cross-carrier A-CSI-RS triggering
    defaultQCL-CrossCarrierA-CSI-Trig-r16             ENUMERATED {diffOnly, both}   OPTIONAL,
    -- R1 18-7: CA with non-aligned frame boundaries for inter-band CA
    interCA-NonAlignedFrame-r16                       ENUMERATED {supported}        OPTIONAL,
    simul-SRS-Trans-BC-r16                            ENUMERATED {n2}               OPTIONAL,
    interFreqDAPS-r16                                 SEQUENCE {
        interFreqAsyncDAPS-r16                            ENUMERATED {supported}    OPTIONAL,
        interFreqDiffSCS-DAPS-r16                         ENUMERATED {supported}    OPTIONAL,
        interFreqMultiUL-TransmissionDAPS-r16             ENUMERATED {supported}    OPTIONAL,
        interFreqSemiStaticPowerSharingDAPS-Mode1-r16     ENUMERATED {supported}    OPTIONAL,
        interFreqSemiStaticPowerSharingDAPS-Mode2-r16     ENUMERATED {supported}    OPTIONAL,
        interFreqDynamicPowerSharingDAPS-r16              ENUMERATED {short, long}  OPTIONAL,
        interFreqUL-TransCancellationDAPS-r16             ENUMERATED {supported}    OPTIONAL
    }                                                                               OPTIONAL,
    codebookParametersPerBC-r16                       CodebookParameters-v1610      OPTIONAL,
    -- R1 16-2a-10 Value of R for BD/CCE
    blindDetectFactor-r16                             INTEGER (1..2)                OPTIONAL,
    -- R1 11-2a: Capability on the number of CCs for monitoring a maximum number of BDs and non-overlapped CCEs per span when configured
    -- with DL CA with Rel-16 PDCCH monitoring capability on all the serving cells
    pdcch-MonitoringCA-r16                            SEQUENCE {
        maxNumberOfMonitoringCC-r16                       INTEGER (2..16),
        supportedSpanArrangement-r16                      ENUMERATED {alignedOnly, alignedAndNonAligned}
    }                                                                               OPTIONAL,
    -- R1 11-2c: Number of carriers for CCE/BD scaling with DL CA with mix of Rel. 16 and Rel. 15 PDCCH monitoring capabilities on
    -- different carriers
    pdcch-BlindDetectionCA-Mixed-r16                  SEQUENCE {
        pdcch-BlindDetectionCA1-r16                       INTEGER (1..15),
        pdcch-BlindDetectionCA2-r16                       INTEGER (1..15),
        supportedSpanArrangement-r16                      ENUMERATED {alignedOnly, alignedAndNonAligned}
    }                                                                               OPTIONAL,
    -- R1 11-2d: Capability on the number of CCs for monitoring a maximum number of BDs and non-overlapped CCEs per span for MCG and for
    -- SCG when configured for NR-DC operation with Rel-16 PDCCH monitoring capability on all the serving cells
    pdcch-BlindDetectionMCG-UE-r16                    INTEGER (1..14)               OPTIONAL,
    pdcch-BlindDetectionSCG-UE-r16                    INTEGER (1..14)               OPTIONAL,
    -- R1 11-2e: Number of carriers for CCE/BD scaling for MCG and for SCG when configured for NR-DC operation with mix of Rel. 16 and
    -- Rel. 15 PDCCH monitoring capabilities on different carriers
    pdcch-BlindDetectionMCG-UE-Mixed-r16              SEQUENCE {
        pdcch-BlindDetectionMCG-UE1-r16                   INTEGER (0..15),
        pdcch-BlindDetectionMCG-UE2-r16                   INTEGER (0..15)
    }                                                                               OPTIONAL,
    pdcch-BlindDetectionSCG-UE-Mixed-r16              SEQUENCE {
        pdcch-BlindDetectionSCG-UE1-r16                   INTEGER (0..15),
        pdcch-BlindDetectionSCG-UE2-r16                   INTEGER (0..15)
    }                                                                               OPTIONAL,
     -- R1 18-5 cross-carrier scheduling with different SCS in DL CA
    crossCarrierSchedulingDL-DiffSCS-r16              ENUMERATED {low-to-high, high-to-low, both} OPTIONAL,
    -- R1 18-5a Default QCL assumption for cross-carrier scheduling
    crossCarrierSchedulingDefaultQCL-r16              ENUMERATED {diff-only, both}  OPTIONAL,
    -- R1 18-5b cross-carrier scheduling with different SCS in UL CA
    crossCarrierSchedulingUL-DiffSCS-r16              ENUMERATED {low-to-high, high-to-low, both} OPTIONAL,
    -- R1 13.19a Simultaneous positioning SRS and MIMO SRS transmission for a given BC
    simul-SRS-MIMO-Trans-BC-r16                       ENUMERATED {n2}               OPTIONAL,
    -- R1 16-3a, 16-3a-1, 16-3b, 16-3b-1: New Individual Codebook
    codebookParametersAdditionPerBC-r16               CodebookParametersAdditionPerBC-r16         OPTIONAL,
    -- R1 16-8: Mixed codebook
    codebookComboParametersAdditionPerBC-r16          CodebookComboParametersAdditionPerBC-r16    OPTIONAL
}

CA-ParametersNR-v1630 ::= SEQUENCE {
    -- R1 22-5b: Simultaneous transmission of SRS for antenna switching and SRS for CB/NCB /BM for inter-band UL CA
    -- R1 22-5d: Simultaneous transmission of SRS for antenna switching for inter-band UL CA	
    simulTX-SRS-AntSwitchingInterBandUL-CA-r16        SimulSRS-ForAntennaSwitching-r16            OPTIONAL,
    -- R4 8-5: supported beam management type for inter-band CA	
    beamManagementType-r16                            ENUMERATED {ibm, dummy}                       OPTIONAL,
    -- R4 7-3a: UL frequency separation class with aggregate BW and Gap BW
    intraBandFreqSeparationUL-AggBW-GapBW-r16         ENUMERATED {classI, classII, classIII}      OPTIONAL,
    -- RAN 89: Case B in case of Inter-band CA with non-aligned frame boundaries
    interCA-NonAlignedFrame-B-r16                     ENUMERATED {supported}                      OPTIONAL
}

CA-ParametersNR-v1640 ::= SEQUENCE {
    -- R4 7-5: Support of reporting UL Tx DC locations for uplink intra-band CA.
    uplinkTxDC-TwoCarrierReport-r16                               ENUMERATED {supported}          OPTIONAL,
    -- RAN 22-6: Support of up to 3 different numerologies in the same NR PUCCH group for NR part of EN-DC, NGEN-DC, NE-DC and NR-CA
    -- where UE is not configured with two NR PUCCH groups
    maxUpTo3Diff-NumerologiesConfigSinglePUCCH-grp-r16            PUCCH-Grp-CarrierTypes-r16      OPTIONAL,
    -- RAN 22-6a: Support of up to 4 different numerologies in the same NR PUCCH group for NR part of EN-DC, NGEN-DC, NE-DC and NR-CA
    -- where UE is not configured with two NR PUCCH groups
    maxUpTo4Diff-NumerologiesConfigSinglePUCCH-grp-r16            PUCCH-Grp-CarrierTypes-r16      OPTIONAL,
    -- RAN 22-7: Support two PUCCH groups for NR-CA with 3 or more bands with at least two carrier types
    twoPUCCH-Grp-ConfigurationsList-r16 SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxTwoPUCCH-Grp-ConfigList-r16)) OF TwoPUCCH-Grp-Configurations-r16 OPTIONAL,
    -- R1 22-7a: Different numerology across NR PUCCH groups
    diffNumerologyAcrossPUCCH-Group-CarrierTypes-r16              ENUMERATED {supported}          OPTIONAL,
    -- R1 22-7b: Different numerologies across NR carriers within the same NR PUCCH group, with PUCCH on a carrier of smaller SCS
    diffNumerologyWithinPUCCH-GroupSmallerSCS-CarrierTypes-r16    ENUMERATED {supported}          OPTIONAL,
    -- R1 22-7c: Different numerologies across NR carriers within the same NR PUCCH group, with PUCCH on a carrier of larger SCS
    diffNumerologyWithinPUCCH-GroupLargerSCS-CarrierTypes-r16     ENUMERATED {supported}          OPTIONAL,
    -- R1 11-2f: add the replicated FGs of 11-2a/c with restriction for non-aligned span case
    -- with DL CA with Rel-16 PDCCH monitoring capability on all the serving cells
    pdcch-MonitoringCA-NonAlignedSpan-r16                         INTEGER (2..16)                 OPTIONAL,
    -- R1 11-2g: add the replicated FGs of 11-2a/c with restriction for non-aligned span case
    pdcch-BlindDetectionCA-Mixed-NonAlignedSpan-r16               SEQUENCE {
        pdcch-BlindDetectionCA1-r16                                   INTEGER (1..15),
        pdcch-BlindDetectionCA2-r16                                   INTEGER (1..15)
    }                                                                                             OPTIONAL
}

CA-ParametersNR-v1690 ::= SEQUENCE {
    csi-ReportingCrossPUCCH-Grp-r16          SEQUENCE {
        computationTimeForA-CSI-r16              ENUMERATED {sameAsNoCross, relaxed},
        additionalSymbols-r16                    SEQUENCE {
            scs-15kHz-additionalSymbols-r16          ENUMERATED {s14, s28}            OPTIONAL,
            scs-30kHz-additionalSymbols-r16          ENUMERATED {s14, s28}            OPTIONAL,
            scs-60kHz-additionalSymbols-r16          ENUMERATED {s14, s28, s56}       OPTIONAL,
            scs-120kHz-additionalSymbols-r16         ENUMERATED {s14, s28, s56}       OPTIONAL
        }                                                                             OPTIONAL,
        sp-CSI-ReportingOnPUCCH-r16              ENUMERATED {supported}               OPTIONAL,
        sp-CSI-ReportingOnPUSCH-r16              ENUMERATED {supported}               OPTIONAL,
        carrierTypePairList-r16                  SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxCarrierTypePairList-r16)) OF CarrierTypePair-r16
    }                                                                                 OPTIONAL
}

CA-ParametersNR-v16a0 ::= SEQUENCE {
    pdcch-BlindDetectionMixedList-r16    SEQUENCE(SIZE(1..maxNrofPdcch-BlindDetectionMixed-1-r16)) OF PDCCH-BlindDetectionMixedList-r16
}

CA-ParametersNR-v1700 ::= SEQUENCE {
    -- R1 23-9-1: Basic Features of Further Enhanced Port-Selection Type II Codebook (FeType-II) per band combination information
    codebookParametersfetype2PerBC-r17               CodebookParametersfetype2PerBC-r17           OPTIONAL,
    -- R4 18-4: Support of enhanced Demodulation requirements for CA in HST SFN FR1
    demodulationEnhancementCA-r17                    ENUMERATED {supported}                       OPTIONAL,
    -- R4 20-1: Maximum uplink duty cycle for NR inter-band CA power class 2
    maxUplinkDutyCycle-interBandCA-PC2-r17           ENUMERATED {n50, n60, n70, n80, n90, n100}   OPTIONAL,
    -- R4 20-2: Maximum uplink duty cycle for NR SUL combination power class 2
    maxUplinkDutyCycle-SULcombination-PC2-r17        ENUMERATED {n50, n60, n70, n80, n90, n100}   OPTIONAL,
    beamManagementType-CBM-r17                       ENUMERATED {supported}                       OPTIONAL,
    -- R1 25-18: Parallel PUCCH and PUSCH transmission across CCs in inter-band CA
    parallelTxPUCCH-PUSCH-r17                        ENUMERATED {supported}      OPTIONAL,
    -- R1 23-9-5	Active CSI-RS resources and ports for mixed codebook types in any slot per band combination
    codebookComboParameterMixedTypePerBC-r17         CodebookComboParameterMixedTypePerBC-r17     OPTIONAL,
   -- R1 23-7-1	Basic Features of CSI Enhancement for Multi-TRP
    mTRP-CSI-EnhancementPerBC-r17                    SEQUENCE {
        maxNumNZP-CSI-RS-r17                             INTEGER (2..8),
        cSI-Report-mode-r17                              ENUMERATED {mode1, mode2, both},
        supportedComboAcrossCCs-r17                      SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..16)) OF CSI-MultiTRP-SupportedCombinations-r17,
        codebookMode-NCJT-r17	ENUMERATED{mode1,mode1And2}
    }                                                                                             OPTIONAL,
     -- R1 23-7-1b	Active CSI-RS resources and ports in the presence of multi-TRP CSI
    codebookComboParameterMultiTRP-PerBC-r17         CodebookComboParameterMultiTRP-PerBC-r17     OPTIONAL,
    -- R1 24-8b: 32 DL HARQ processes for FR 2-2 - maximum number of component carriers
    maxCC-32-DL-HARQ-ProcessFR2-2-r17                ENUMERATED {n1, n2, n3, n4, n6, n8, n16, n32} OPTIONAL,
    -- R1 24-9b: 32 UL HARQ processes for FR 2-2 - maximum number of component carriers
    maxCC-32-UL-HARQ-ProcessFR2-2-r17                ENUMERATED {n1, n2, n3, n4, n5, n8, n16, n32}  OPTIONAL,
    -- R1 34-2: Cross-carrier scheduling from SCell to PCell/PSCell (Type B)
    crossCarrierSchedulingSCell-SpCellTypeB-r17      CrossCarrierSchedulingSCell-SpCell-r17       OPTIONAL,
-- R1 34-1: Cross-carrier scheduling from SCell to PCell/PSCell with search space restrictions (Type A)
    crossCarrierSchedulingSCell-SpCellTypeA-r17      CrossCarrierSchedulingSCell-SpCell-r17       OPTIONAL,
    -- R1 34-1a: DCI formats on PCell/PSCell USS set(s) support
    dci-FormatsPCellPSCellUSS-Sets-r17               ENUMERATED {supported}                       OPTIONAL,
    -- R1 34-3: Disabling scaling factor alpha when sSCell is deactivated
    disablingScalingFactorDeactSCell-r17             ENUMERATED {supported}                       OPTIONAL,
    -- R1 34-4: Disabling scaling factor alpha when sSCell is deactivated
    disablingScalingFactorDormantSCell-r17           ENUMERATED {supported}                       OPTIONAL,
    -- R1 34-5: Non-aligned frame boundaries between PCell/PSCell and sSCell
    non-AlignedFrameBoundaries-r17 SEQUENCE {
        scs15kHz-15kHz-r17                           BIT STRING (SIZE (1..496))                   OPTIONAL,
        scs15kHz-30kHz-r17                           BIT STRING (SIZE (1..496))                   OPTIONAL,
        scs15kHz-60kHz-r17                           BIT STRING (SIZE (1..496))                   OPTIONAL,
        scs30kHz-30kHz-r17                           BIT STRING (SIZE (1..496))                   OPTIONAL,
        scs30kHz-60kHz-r17                           BIT STRING (SIZE (1..496))                   OPTIONAL,
        scs60kHz-60kHz-r17                           BIT STRING (SIZE (1..496))                   OPTIONAL
    }                                                                                             OPTIONAL
}

CA-ParametersNR-v1720 ::= SEQUENCE {
    -- R1 39-1: Parallel SRS and PUCCH/PUSCH transmission across CCs in intra-band non-contiguous CA
    parallelTxSRS-PUCCH-PUSCH-intraBand-r17          ENUMERATED {supported}                       OPTIONAL,
    -- R1 39-2: Parallel PRACH and SRS/PUCCH/PUSCH transmissions across CCs in intra-band non-contiguous CA
    parallelTxPRACH-SRS-PUCCH-PUSCH-intraBand-r17    ENUMERATED {supported}                       OPTIONAL,
    -- R1 25-9: Semi-static PUCCH cell switching for a single PUCCH group only
    semiStaticPUCCH-CellSwitchSingleGroup-r17        SEQUENCE {
        pucch-Group-r17                                ENUMERATED {primaryGroupOnly, secondaryGroupOnly, eitherPrimaryOrSecondaryGroup},
        pucch-Group-Config-r17                           PUCCH-Group-Config-r17
    }                                                                                             OPTIONAL,
    -- R1 25-9a: Semi-static PUCCH cell switching for two PUCCH groups
    semiStaticPUCCH-CellSwitchTwoGroups-r17    SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxTwoPUCCH-Grp-ConfigList-r17)) OF TwoPUCCH-Grp-Configurations-r17 OPTIONAL,
    -- R1 25-10: PUCCH cell switching based on dynamic indication for same length of overlapping PUCCH slots/sub-slots for a single
    -- PUCCH group only
    dynamicPUCCH-CellSwitchSameLengthSingleGroup-r17 SEQUENCE {
        pucch-Group-r17                                  ENUMERATED {primaryGroupOnly, secondaryGroupOnly, eitherPrimaryOrSecondaryGroup},
        pucch-Group-Config-r17                       PUCCH-Group-Config-r17
    }                                                                                             OPTIONAL,
    -- R1 25-10a: PUCCH cell switching based on dynamic indication for different length of overlapping PUCCH slots/sub-slots
    -- for a single PUCCH group only
    dynamicPUCCH-CellSwitchDiffLengthSingleGroup-r17 SEQUENCE {
        pucch-Group-r17                                  ENUMERATED {primaryGroupOnly, secondaryGroupOnly, eitherPrimaryOrSecondaryGroup},
        pucch-Group-Config-r17                           PUCCH-Group-Config-r17
    }                                                                                             OPTIONAL,
    -- R1 25-10b: PUCCH cell switching based on dynamic indication for same length of overlapping PUCCH slots/sub-slots for two PUCCH
    -- groups
    dynamicPUCCH-CellSwitchSameLengthTwoGroups-r17   SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxTwoPUCCH-Grp-ConfigList-r17)) OF TwoPUCCH-Grp-Configurations-r17
                                                                                                  OPTIONAL,
    -- R1 25-10c: PUCCH cell switching based on dynamic indication for different length of overlapping PUCCH slots/sub-slots for two
    -- PUCCH groups
    dynamicPUCCH-CellSwitchDiffLengthTwoGroups-r17   SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxTwoPUCCH-Grp-ConfigList-r17)) OF TwoPUCCH-Grp-Configurations-r17
                                                                                                  OPTIONAL,
    -- R1 33-2a: ACK/NACK based HARQ-ACK feedback and RRC-based enabling/disabling ACK/NACK-based
    -- feedback for dynamic scheduling for multicast
    ack-NACK-FeedbackForMulticast-r17                ENUMERATED {supported}                       OPTIONAL,
    -- R1 33-2d: PTP retransmission for multicast dynamic scheduling
    ptp-Retx-Multicast-r17                           ENUMERATED {supported}                       OPTIONAL,
    -- R1 33-4: NACK-only based HARQ-ACK feedback for RRC-based enabling/disabling multicast with ACK/NACK transforming
    nack-OnlyFeedbackForMulticast-r17                ENUMERATED {supported}                       OPTIONAL,
    -- R1 33-4a: NACK-only based HARQ-ACK feedback for multicast corresponding to a specific sequence or a PUCCH transmission
    nack-OnlyFeedbackSpecificResourceForMulticast-r17 ENUMERATED {supported}                      OPTIONAL,
    -- R1 33-5-1a: ACK/NACK based HARQ-ACK feedback and RRC-based enabling/disabling ACK/NACK-based feedback
    -- for SPS group-common PDSCH for multicast
    ack-NACK-FeedbackForSPS-Multicast-r17            ENUMERATED {supported}                       OPTIONAL,
    -- R1 33-5-1d: PTP retransmission for SPS group-common PDSCH for multicast
    ptp-Retx-SPS-Multicast-r17                       ENUMERATED {supported}                       OPTIONAL,
    -- R4 26-1: Higher Power Limit CA DC
    higherPowerLimit-r17                             ENUMERATED {supported}                       OPTIONAL,
    -- R1 39-4: Parallel MsgA and SRS/PUCCH/PUSCH transmissions across CCs in intra-band non-contiguous CA
    parallelTxMsgA-SRS-PUCCH-PUSCH-intraBand-r17     ENUMERATED {supported}                       OPTIONAL,
    -- R1 24-11a: Capability on the number of CCs for monitoring a maximum number of BDs and non-overlapped CCEs per span when
    -- configured with DL CA with Rel-17 PDCCH monitoring capability on all the serving cells
    pdcch-MonitoringCA-r17                           INTEGER (4..16)                              OPTIONAL,
    -- R1 24-11f: Capability on the number of CCs for monitoring a maximum number of BDs and non-overlapped CCEs for MCG and for SCG
    -- when configured for NR-DC operation with Rel-17 PDCCH monitoring capability on all the serving cells
    pdcch-BlindDetectionMCG-SCG-List-r17             SEQUENCE(SIZE(1..maxNrofPdcch-BlindDetection-r17)) OF PDCCH-BlindDetectionMCG-SCG-r17
                                                                                                  OPTIONAL,
    -- R1 24-11c: Number of carriers for CCE/BD scaling with DL CA with mix of Rel. 17 and Rel. 15 PDCCH monitoring capabilities on
    -- different Carriers
    -- R1 24-11g: Number of carriers for CCE/BD scaling for MCG and for SCG when configured for NR-DC operation with mix of Rel. 17 and
    -- Rel. 15 PDCCH monitoring capabilities on different carriers
    pdcch-BlindDetectionMixedList1-r17               SEQUENCE(SIZE(1..maxNrofPdcch-BlindDetection-r17)) OF PDCCH-BlindDetectionMixed-r17
                                                                                                  OPTIONAL,
    -- R1 24-11d: Number of carriers for CCE/BD scaling with DL CA with mix of Rel. 17 and Rel. 16 PDCCH monitoring capabilities on
    -- different Carriers
    -- R1 24-11h: Number of carriers for CCE/BD scaling for MCG and for SCG when configured for NR-DC operation with mix of Rel. 17 and
    -- Rel. 16 PDCCH monitoring capabilities on different carriers
    pdcch-BlindDetectionMixedList2-r17               SEQUENCE(SIZE(1..maxNrofPdcch-BlindDetection-r17)) OF PDCCH-BlindDetectionMixed-r17
                                                                                                  OPTIONAL,
    -- R1 24-11e: Number of carriers for CCE/BD scaling with DL CA with mix of Rel. 17, Rel. 16 and Rel. 15 PDCCH monitoring
    -- capabilities on different carriers
    -- R1 24-11i: Number of carriers for CCE/BD scaling for MCG and for SCG when configured for NR-DC operation with mix of Rel. 17,
    -- Rel. 16 and Rel. 15 PDCCH monitoring capabilities on different carriers
    pdcch-BlindDetectionMixedList3-r17               SEQUENCE(SIZE(1..maxNrofPdcch-BlindDetection-r17)) OF PDCCH-BlindDetectionMixed1-r17
                                                                                                  OPTIONAL
}

CA-ParametersNR-v1730 ::= SEQUENCE {
    -- R1 30-4a: DM-RS bundling for PUSCH repetition type A (per BC)
    dmrs-BundlingPUSCH-RepTypeAPerBC-r17                   ENUMERATED {supported}                         OPTIONAL,
    -- R1 30-4b: DM-RS bundling for PUSCH repetition type B(per BC)
    dmrs-BundlingPUSCH-RepTypeBPerBC-r17                   ENUMERATED {supported}                         OPTIONAL,
    -- R1 30-4c: DM-RS bundling for TB processing over multi-slot PUSCH(per BC)
    dmrs-BundlingPUSCH-multiSlotPerBC-r17                  ENUMERATED {supported}                         OPTIONAL,
    -- R1 30-4d: DMRS bundling for PUCCH repetitions(per BC)
    dmrs-BundlingPUCCH-RepPerBC-r17                        ENUMERATED {supported}                         OPTIONAL,
    -- R1 30-4g: Restart DM-RS bundling (per BC)
    dmrs-BundlingRestartPerBC-r17                          ENUMERATED {supported}                         OPTIONAL,
    -- R1 30-4h: DM-RS bundling for non-back-to-back transmission (per BC)
    dmrs-BundlingNonBackToBackTX-PerBC-r17                 ENUMERATED {supported}                         OPTIONAL,
    -- R1 39-3-1: Stay on the target CC for SRS carrier switching
    stayOnTargetCC-SRS-CarrierSwitch-r17                   ENUMERATED {supported}                         OPTIONAL,
    -- R1 33-3-3a: FDM-ed Type-1 and Type-2 HARQ-ACK codebooks for multiplexing HARQ-ACK for unicast and HARQ-ACK for multicast
    fdm-CodebookForMux-UnicastMulticastHARQ-ACK-r17        ENUMERATED {supported}                         OPTIONAL,
    -- R1 33-3-3b: Mode 2 TDM-ed Type-1 and Type-2 HARQ-ACK codebook for multiplexing HARQ-ACK for unicast and HARQ-ACK for multicast
    mode2-TDM-CodebookForMux-UnicastMulticastHARQ-ACK-r17  ENUMERATED {supported}                         OPTIONAL,
    -- R1 33-3-4: Mode 1 for type1 codebook generation
    mode1-ForType1-CodebookGeneration-r17                  ENUMERATED {supported}                         OPTIONAL,
    -- R1 33-5-1j: NACK-only based HARQ-ACK feedback for multicast corresponding to a specific sequence or a PUCCH transmission
    -- for SPS group-commmon PDSCH for multicast
    nack-OnlyFeedbackSpecificResourceForSPS-Multicast-r17  ENUMERATED {supported}                         OPTIONAL,
    -- R1 33-8-2: Up to 2 PUCCH resources configuration for multicast feedback for dynamically scheduled multicast
    multiPUCCH-ConfigForMulticast-r17                      ENUMERATED {supported}                         OPTIONAL,
    -- R1 33-8-3: PUCCH resource configuration for multicast feedback for SPS GC-PDSCH
    pucch-ConfigForSPS-Multicast-r17                       ENUMERATED {supported}                         OPTIONAL,
    -- The following parameter is associated with R1 33-2a, R1 33-3-3a, and R1 33-3-3b, and is not a RAN1 FG.
    maxNumberG-RNTI-HARQ-ACK-Codebook-r17                  INTEGER (1..4)                                 OPTIONAL,
    -- R1 33-3-5: Feedback multiplexing for unicast PDSCH and group-common PDSCH for multicast with same priority and different codebook
    -- type
    mux-HARQ-ACK-UnicastMulticast-r17                      ENUMERATED {supported}                         OPTIONAL
}

CA-ParametersNR-v1740 ::= SEQUENCE {
    -- R1 33-5-1f: NACK-only based HARQ-ACK feedback for multicast RRC-based enabling/disabling NACK-only based feedback
    -- for SPS group-common PDSCH for multicast
    nack-OnlyFeedbackForSPS-Multicast-r17                  ENUMERATED {supported}                         OPTIONAL,
    -- R1 33-8-1: PUCCH resource configuration for multicast feedback for dynamically scheduled multicast
    singlePUCCH-ConfigForMulticast-r17                     ENUMERATED {supported}                         OPTIONAL
}

CA-ParametersNR-v1760 ::= SEQUENCE {
    prioSCellPRACH-OverSP-PeriodicSRS-Support-r17          ENUMERATED {supported}                         OPTIONAL
}

CA-ParametersNR-v1770 ::= SEQUENCE {
    parallelTxPUCCH-PUSCH-SamePriority-r17                 ENUMERATED {supported}                         OPTIONAL
}

CA-ParametersNR-v1780 ::= SEQUENCE {
    parallelTxPUCCH-PUSCH-SamePriority-r17      ENUMERATED {supported}                    OPTIONAL,
    supportedAggBW-FR1-r17      SEQUENCE {
        scalingFactorSCS-r17                    ENUMERATED {true}                         OPTIONAL,
        supportedAggBW-FDD-DL-r17               SupportedAggBandwidth-r17                 OPTIONAL,
        supportedAggBW-FDD-UL-r17               SupportedAggBandwidth-r17                 OPTIONAL,
        supportedAggBW-TDD-DL-r17               SupportedAggBandwidth-r17                 OPTIONAL,
        supportedAggBW-TDD-UL-r17               SupportedAggBandwidth-r17                 OPTIONAL,
        supportedAggBW-TotalDL-r17              SupportedAggBandwidth-r17                 OPTIONAL,
        supportedAggBW-TotalUL-r17              SupportedAggBandwidth-r17                 OPTIONAL
    }    OPTIONAL
}

CA-ParametersNR-v1800 ::= SEQUENCE {
    codebookParametersetype2DopplerCSI-PerBC-r18  CodebookParametersetype2DopplerCSI-r18                  OPTIONAL,
    codebookParametersfetype2DopplerCSI-PerBC-r18 CodebookParametersfetype2DopplerCSI-r18                 OPTIONAL,
    codebookParametersetype2CJT-PerBC-r18         CodebookParametersetype2CJT-r18                         OPTIONAL,
    codebookParametersfetype2CJT-PerBC-r18        CodebookParametersfetype2CJT-r18                        OPTIONAL,
    codebookComboParametersCJT-PerBC-r18          CodebookComboParametersCJT-r18                          OPTIONAL,
    codebookParametersHARQ-ACK-PUSCH-PerBC-r18    CodebookParametersHARQ-ACK-PUSCH-r18                    OPTIONAL,
    -- R1 40-2-8: Maximum number of TAGs across all CCs
    maxNumberTAG-AcrossCC-r18                     INTEGER (2..4)                                          OPTIONAL,
    -- R1 40-3-3-1: TDCP (Time Domain Channel Properties) report
    tdcp-ReportPerBC-r18                          SEQUENCE {
        valueX-r18                                    INTEGER (1..2),
        maxNumberActiveResource-r18                   INTEGER (2..32)
    }                                                                                                     OPTIONAL,
    -- R1 40-3-3-5: Number of CSI-RS resources for TDCP
    tdcp-ResourcePerBC-r18                        SEQUENCE {
        maxNumberConfigPerCC-r18                      ENUMERATED {n2,n4,n6,n8,n10,n12},
        maxNumberConfigAcrossCC-r18                   INTEGER (1..32),
        maxNumberSimultaneousPerCC-r18                ENUMERATED {n2, n4, n6, n8, n12, n16, n20, n24, n28, n32}
    }                                                                                                     OPTIONAL,
    -- R1 40-3-1-24: Timeline for regular eType-II-CJT CSI, or for port selection FeType-II-CJT CSI
    timelineRelax-CJT-CSI-CA-r18                  ENUMERATED {n0,n2}                                      OPTIONAL,
    -- R1 42-1: Spatial domain adaptation with CSI feedback based on CSI report sub-configuration(s) for periodic CSI reporting
    spatialAdaptation-CSI-FeedbackPerBC-r18       SEQUENCE {
        maxNumberCSI-ResourceAcrossCC-r18             SEQUENCE {
            sdType1-Resource-r18                          ENUMERATED {n5, n6, n7, n8, n9, n10, n12, n14, n16, n18, n20, n22,
                                                                      n24, n26, n28, n30, n32, n34, n36, n38, n40, n42, n44,
                                                                      n46, n48, n50, n52, n54, n56, n58, n60, n62, n64},
            sdType2-Resource-r18                          ENUMERATED {n5, n6, n7, n8, n9, n10, n12, n14, n16, n18, n20, n22,
                                                                      n24, n26, n28, n30, n32, n34, n36, n38, n40, n42, n44,
                                                                      n46, n48, n50, n52, n54, n56, n58, n60, n62, n64}
        },
        maxNumberPortsAcrossCC-r18                    SEQUENCE {
            sdType1-Resource-r18                          INTEGER (1..32),
            sdType2-Resource-r18                          INTEGER (1..32)
        }
    }                                                                                                   OPTIONAL,
    -- R1 40-7-2a: Association between CSI-RS and SRS for non-codebook case
    nonCodebook-CSI-RS-SRS-PerBC-r18    SEQUENCE (SIZE (1.. maxNrofCSI-RS-Resources)) OF SupportedCSI-RS-Resource   OPTIONAL,
    -- R1 42-1a: Spatial domain adaptation with CSI feedback based on CSI report sub-configuration(s) for periodic CSI reporting on
    -- PUSCH
    spatialAdaptation-CSI-FeedbackPUSCH-PerBC-r18 SEQUENCE {
        maxNumberCSI-ResourceAcrossCC-r18             ENUMERATED {n5, n6, n7, n8, n9, n10, n12, n14, n16, n18, n20, n22, n24, n26, n28,
                                                                n30, n32, n34, n36, n38, n40, n42, n44, n46, n48, n50, n52, n54,
                                                                 n56, n58, n60, n62, n64},
        maxNumberPortsAcrossCC-r18                    INTEGER (1..32)
    }                                                                                                   OPTIONAL,
    -- R1 42-1b: Spatial domain adaptation with CSI feedback based on CSI report sub-configuration(s) for aperiodic CSI reporting
    spatialAdaptation-CSI-FeedbackAperiodicPerBC-r18 SEQUENCE {
        maxNumberCSI-ResourceAcrossCC-r18                SEQUENCE {
            sdType1-Resource-r18                             ENUMERATED {n5, n6, n7, n8, n9, n10, n12, n14, n16, n18, n20, n22,
                                                                      n24, n26, n28, n30, n32, n34, n36, n38, n40, n42, n44,
                                                                      n46, n48, n50, n52, n54, n56, n58, n60, n62, n64},
            sdType2-Resource-r18                             ENUMERATED {n5, n6, n7, n8, n9, n10, n12, n14, n16, n18, n20, n22,
                                                                      n24, n26, n28, n30, n32, n34, n36, n38, n40, n42, n44,
                                                                      n46, n48, n50, n52, n54, n56, n58, n60, n62, n64}
        },
        maxNumberPortsAcrossCC-r18                       SEQUENCE {
            sdType1-Resource-r18                             INTEGER (1..32),
            sdType2-Resource-r18                             INTEGER (1..32)        }
    }                                                                                                   OPTIONAL,
    -- R1 42-1c: Spatial domain adaptation with CSI feedback based on CSI report sub-configuration(s) for semi-persistent CSI
    -- reporting on PUCCH
    spatialAdaptation-CSI-FeedbackPUCCH-PerBC-r18 SEQUENCE {
        maxNumberCSI-ResourceAcrossCC-r18             ENUMERATED {n5, n6, n7, n8, n9, n10, n12, n14, n16, n18, n20, n22, n24, n26, n28,
                                                                n30, n32, n34, n36, n38, n40, n42, n44, n46, n48, n50, n52, n54,
                                                                 n56, n58, n60, n62, n64},
        maxNumberPortsAcrossCC-r18                    INTEGER (1..32)
    }                                                                                                   OPTIONAL,
    -- R1 42-2: Spatial domain adaptation with CSI feedback based on CSI report sub-configuration(s) for periodic CSI reporting
    powerAdaptation-CSI-FeedbackPerBC-r18         SEQUENCE {
        maxNumberCSI-ResourceAcrossCC-r18             ENUMERATED {n5, n6, n7, n8, n9, n10, n12, n14, n16, n18, n20, n22, n24, n26, n28,
                                                                n30, n32, n34, n36, n38, n40, n42, n44, n46, n48, n50, n52, n54,
                                                                 n56, n58, n60, n62, n64},
        maxNumberPortsAcrossCC-r18                    INTEGER (1..32)
    }                                                                                                   OPTIONAL,
    -- R1 42-2a: Spatial domain adaptation with CSI feedback based on CSI report sub-configuration(s) for periodic CSI reporting on PUSCH
    powerAdaptation-CSI-FeedbackPUSCH-PerBC-r18   SEQUENCE {
        maxNumberCSI-ResourceAcrossCC-r18             ENUMERATED {n5, n6, n7, n8, n9, n10, n12, n14, n16, n18, n20, n22, n24, n26, n28,
                                                                n30, n32, n34, n36, n38, n40, n42, n44, n46, n48, n50, n52, n54,
                                                                 n56, n58, n60, n62, n64},
        maxNumberPortsAcrossCC-r18                   INTEGER (1..32)
    }                                                                                                   OPTIONAL,
    -- R1 42-2b: Spatial domain adaptation with CSI feedback based on CSI report sub-configuration(s) for aperiodic CSI reporting
    powerAdaptation-CSI-FeedbackAperiodicPerBC-r18 SEQUENCE {
        maxNumberCSI-ResourceAcrossCC-r18             ENUMERATED {n5, n6, n7, n8, n9, n10, n12, n14, n16, n18, n20, n22, n24, n26, n28,
                                                                n30, n32, n34, n36, n38, n40, n42, n44, n46, n48, n50, n52, n54,
                                                                 n56, n58, n60, n62, n64},
        maxNumberPortsAcrossCC-r18                    INTEGER (1..32)
    }                                                                                                   OPTIONAL,
    -- R1 42-2c: Spatial domain adaptation with CSI feedback based on CSI report sub-configuration(s) for semi-persistent CSI
    -- reporting on PUCCH
    powerAdaptation-CSI-FeedbackPUCCH-PerBC-r18   SEQUENCE {
        maxNumberCSI-ResourceAcrossCC-r18             ENUMERATED {n5, n6, n7, n8, n9, n10, n12, n14, n16, n18, n20, n22, n24, n26, n28,
                                                                n30, n32, n34, n36, n38, n40, n42, n44, n46, n48, n50, n52, n54,
                                                                 n56, n58, n60, n62, n64},
        maxNumberPortsAcrossCC-r18                    INTEGER (1..32)
    }                                                                                                   OPTIONAL,

    -- R1 42-7: Mixed codebook combination for spatial domain adaptation with CSI feedback based on CSI report sub-configuration(s),
    -- each containing one port subset configuration
    mixCodeBookSpatialAdaptationPerBC-r18         SEQUENCE (SIZE (1.. maxNrofCSI-RS-Resources)) OF SupportedCSI-RS-Resource       OPTIONAL,
    -- R1 42-9: Indicates whether the UE supports CSI report framework and the number of CSI report(s) which the UE can
    -- simultaneously process across all CCs, and across MCG and SCG in case of NR-DC.
    simultaneousCSI-SubReportsAllCC-r18           INTEGER (5..32)                                       OPTIONAL,

    -- R1 49-1: Multi-cell PDSCH scheduling by DCI format 1_3 on a scheduling cell with same SCS between scheduling
    -- cell and cells in the set
    multiCell-PDSCH-DCI-1-3-SameSCS-r18           SEQUENCE {
        coScheduledCellSCS-r18                        SEQUENCE {
            nonSharedSpectrum-fdd-fr1                     ENUMERATED {supported}                        OPTIONAL,
            nonSharedSpectrum-tdd-fr1                     ENUMERATED {supported}                        OPTIONAL,
            sharedSpectrum-tdd-fr1                        ENUMERATED {supported}                        OPTIONAL,
            fr2-1                                         ENUMERATED {supported}                        OPTIONAL,
            fr2-2                                         ENUMERATED {supported}                        OPTIONAL
        },
        maxNumberCoScheduledCell-r18                  INTEGER (2..4),
        maxNumberSetsOfCellAcrossPUCCH-Group-r18      INTEGER (1..8),
        maxNumberSetsOfCellScheduling-r18             INTEGER (1..4),
        harqFeedbackType-r18                          ENUMERATED {type1, type2, type1And2},
        coScheduledCellIndicationScheme-r18           ENUMERATED {fdra,cellInd, both},
        supportOfSearchSpace-r18                      ENUMERATED {supported}                            OPTIONAL,
        licensed-fdd-tdd-fr1-r18                      ENUMERATED {supported}                            OPTIONAL
    }                                                                                                   OPTIONAL,
    -- R1 49-1b: Multi-cell PDSCH scheduling by DCI format 1_3 on a scheduling cell not included in a set of cells with different
    -- SCS/carrier type between scheduling cell and cells in the set
    multiCell-PDSCH-DCI-1-3-DiffSCS-r18           SEQUENCE {
        coScheduledCellSCS-r18                        ENUMERATED {lowScheduling-highScheduled, highScheduling-lowScheduled, both},
        combinationCarrierType-r18                    SEQUENCE (SIZE(1..maxSchedulingBandCombination-r18)) OF
                                                                         CombinationCarrierType-r18,
        maxNumberCoScheduledCell-r18                  INTEGER (2..4),
        maxNumberSetsOfCellAcrossPUCCH-Group-r18      INTEGER (1..8),
        maxNumberSetsOfCellScheduling-r18             INTEGER (1..4),
        harqFeedbackType-r18                          ENUMERATED {type1, type2, type1And2},
        coScheduledCellIndicationScheme-r18           ENUMERATED {fdra,cellInd, both}
    }                                                                                                   OPTIONAL,
    -- R1 49-2: Multi-cell PUSCH scheduling by DCI format 0_3 on a scheduling cell with same SCS between scheduling cell
    -- and cells in the set
    multiCell-PUSCH-DCI-0-3-SameSCS-r18           SEQUENCE {
        coScheduledCellSCS-r18                        SEQUENCE {
            nonSharedSpectrum-fdd-fr1                     ENUMERATED {supported}                        OPTIONAL,
            nonSharedSpectrum-tdd-fr1                     ENUMERATED {supported}                        OPTIONAL,
            sharedSpectrum-tdd-fr1                        ENUMERATED {supported}                        OPTIONAL,
            fr2-1                                         ENUMERATED {supported}                        OPTIONAL,
            fr2-2                                         ENUMERATED {supported}                        OPTIONAL
        },
        maxNumberCoScheduledCell-r18                  INTEGER (2..4),
        maxNumberSetsOfCellAcrossPUCCH-Group-r18      INTEGER (1..8),
        maxNumberSetsOfCellScheduling-r18             INTEGER (1..4),
        coScheduledCellIndicationScheme-r18           ENUMERATED {fdra,cellInd, both},
        supportOfSearchSpace-r18                      ENUMERATED {supported}                            OPTIONAL,
        licensed-fdd-tdd-fr1-r18                      ENUMERATED {supported}                            OPTIONAL
    }                                                                                                   OPTIONAL,
    -- R1 49-2b: Multi-cell PUSCH scheduling by DCI format 0_3 on a scheduling cell not included in a set of cells with
    -- different SCS/carrier type between scheduling cell and cells in the set
    multiCell-PUSCH-DCI-0-3-DiffSCS-r18           SEQUENCE {
        coScheduledCellSCS-r18                        ENUMERATED {lowScheduling-highScheduled, highScheduling-lowScheduled, both},
        combinationCarrierType-r18                    SEQUENCE (SIZE(1..maxSchedulingBandCombination-r18)) OF
                                                                         CombinationCarrierType-r18,
        maxNumberCoScheduledCell-r18                  INTEGER (2..4),
        maxNumberSetsOfCellAcrossPUCCH-Group-r18      INTEGER (1..8),
        maxNumberSetsOfCellScheduling-r18             INTEGER (1..4),
        coScheduledCellIndicationScheme-r18           ENUMERATED {fdra,cellInd, both}
   }                                                                                                    OPTIONAL,
    -- R1 49-3x: Advanced UE capability for larger number of unicast DL DCI
    advUnicastDCI-DL-r18                          SEQUENCE {
         scs-15kHz-120kHz-r18                         ENUMERATED {n2, n4}                               OPTIONAL,
         scs-15kHz-60kHz-r18                          ENUMERATED {n2, n4}                               OPTIONAL,
         scs-30kHz-120kHz-r18                         ENUMERATED {n2, n4}                               OPTIONAL,
         scs-15kHz-30kHz-r18                          ENUMERATED {n2}                                   OPTIONAL,
         scs-30kHz-60kHz-r18                          ENUMERATED {n2}                                   OPTIONAL,
         scs-60kHz-120kHz-r18                         ENUMERATED {n2}                                   OPTIONAL
    }                                                                                                   OPTIONAL,
    -- R1 49-3y: Advanced UE capability for larger number of unicast UL DCI
    advUnicastDCI-UL-r18                          SEQUENCE {
         scs-15kHz-120kHz-r18                         ENUMERATED {n2, n4}                               OPTIONAL,
         scs-15kHz-60kHz-r18                          ENUMERATED {n2, n4}                               OPTIONAL,
         scs-30kHz-120kHz-r18                         ENUMERATED {n2, n4}                               OPTIONAL,
         scs-15kHz-30kHz-r18                          ENUMERATED {n2}                                   OPTIONAL,
         scs-30kHz-60kHz-r18                          ENUMERATED {n2}                                   OPTIONAL,
         scs-60kHz-120kHz-r18                         ENUMERATED {n2}                                   OPTIONAL
    }                                                                                                   OPTIONAL,
    -- R1 49-5a: Trigger Type 3 HARQ CB based feedback using DCI format 1_3
    type3HARQ-CB-DCI-1-3-r18                          ENUMERATED {supported}                            OPTIONAL,
    -- R1 49-5b: Trigger enhanced Type 3 HARQ CB based feedback using DCI format 1_3
    type3EnhHARQ-CB-DCI-1-3-r18                   SEQUENCE {
        numberOfCodebook-r18                          ENUMERATED {n1, n2, n4, n8},
        maxNumberPUCCH-Trans-r18                      INTEGER (1..7)
    }                                                                                                   OPTIONAL,
    -- R1 49-9: SCell dormancy indication within active time in DCI format 0_3/1_3
    scellDormancyWithinActiveTime-DCI-0-3-And-1-3-r18 ENUMERATED {supported}                            OPTIONAL,
    pdcch-MonitoringCA-Ext-r18                    CHOICE {
        -- R1 55-6a: Capability on the number of CCs for monitoring a maximum number of BDs and non-overlapped CCEs per span when
        -- configured with DL CA with Rel-16 PDCCH monitoring capability on all the serving cells
        pdcch-MonitoringCA-r18                    SEQUENCE {
            maxNumberOfMonitoringCC-r18               INTEGER (2..16),
            supportedSpanArrangement-r18              ENUMERATED {alignedOnly, alignedAndNonAligned}
        },
        -- R1 55-6f: Capability on the number of CCs for monitoring a maximum number of BDs and non-overlapped CCEs per span when
        -- configured with DL CA with Rel-16 PDCCH monitoring capability on all the serving cells with restriction for non-aligned
        -- span case
        pdcch-MonitoringCA-NonAlignedSpan-r18         INTEGER (2..16)
    }                                                                                                   OPTIONAL,
    pdcch-BlindDetectionCA-MixedExt-r18           CHOICE {
        -- R1 55-6c: Number of carriers for CCE/BD scaling with DL CA with mix of Rel. 16 and Rel. 15 PDCCH monitoring capabilities on
        -- different carriers
        pdcch-BlindDetectionCA-Mixed-r18              SEQUENCE {
            blindDetectionCA-Mixed-r18                    SEQUENCE(SIZE (1..maxNrofPdcch-BlindDetectionMixed-1-r16)) OF
                                                              PDCCH-BlindDetectionCA-MixedExt-r16,
            supportedSpanArrangement-r18                  ENUMERATED{ alignedOnly, alignedAndNonAligned }
        },
        -- R1 55-6g: Number of carriers for CCE/BD scaling with DL CA with mix of Rel. 16 and Rel. 15 PDCCH monitoring capabilities on
        -- different carriers with restriction for non-aligned span case
        pdcch-BlindDetectionCA-Mixed-NonAlignedSpan-r18  SEQUENCE(SIZE (1..maxNrofPdcch-BlindDetectionMixed-1-r16)) OF
                                                                        PDCCH-BlindDetectionCA-MixedExt-r16
    }                                                                                                   OPTIONAL,
    -- R1 55-6e: Number of carriers for CCE/BD scaling for MCG and for SCG when configured for NR-DC operation with mix of Rel. 16
    -- and Rel. 15 PDCCH monitoring capabilities on different carriers
    pdcch-BlindDetectionMCG-SCG-List-r18          SEQUENCE(SIZE (1..maxNrofPdcch-BlindDetectionMixed-1-r16)) OF
                                                                     PDCCH-BlindDetectionMixed2-r18     OPTIONAL,
    -- R4 33-1: Support of intra-band non-collocated NR CA operation
    intraBandNR-CA-non-collocated-r18             ENUMERATED {supported}                                OPTIONAL
}

CA-ParametersNR-v1830 ::= SEQUENCE {
    -- R1 45-1: Intra-frequency L1 measurement and reports for L1-L2 Triggered Mobility (LTM) procedure
    intraFreqL1-MeasConfig-r18                            SEQUENCE {
       supportedMaxIntraFreqCellsConfig-r18                   INTEGER (1..8),
       supportedMaxIntraFreqCellsPerReport-r18                INTEGER (1..4),
       supportedMaxReportBeamsPerReportedCell-r18             INTEGER (1..4),
       supportedMaxReportBeamsReports-r18                     ENUMERATED {n1,n2,n3,n4,n6,n8,n9,n12,n16},
       supportedMaxAperiodic-LTM-CSI-ReportConfig-r18         INTEGER (0..4),
       supportedMaxPeriodic-LTM-CSI-ReportConfig-r18          INTEGER (1..4),
       supportedMaxSemiPersistent-LTM-CSI-ReportConfig-r18    INTEGER (0..4)
   }                                                                                                   OPTIONAL,
    -- R1 45-1a: Inter-frequency L1 measurement and reports for L1-L2 Triggered Mobility (LTM) procedure
    interFreqL1-MeasConfig-r18                            SEQUENCE {
       supportedMaxIntraInterFreqCellsConfig-r18              INTEGER (1..8),
       supportedMaxIntraInterFreqCellsPerReport-r18           INTEGER (1..4),
       supportedMaxIntraInterFreqBeamsPerCellReports-r18      INTEGER (1..4),
       supportedMaxIntraInterFreqBeamsReports-r18             ENUMERATED {n1,n2,n3,n4,n6,n8,n9,n12,n16}
    }                                                                                                  OPTIONAL,
    -- R1 45-2: Inclusion of current SpCell in the L1 measurement report
    currentSpCellInclL1-Report-r18                        ENUMERATED {supported}                       OPTIONAL,
    -- R4 39-1: SSB based L1-RSRP measurements for multiple cells with RTD > CP
    multiCellL1-measRTD-greaterThan-CP-r18                ENUMERATED {supported}                       OPTIONAL,
    -- R4 39-2: SSB based inter-frequency L1-RSRP measurements without measurement gaps
    interFreqSSB-L1-MeasWithoutGaps-r18                   ENUMERATED {supported}                       OPTIONAL,
    -- R4 39-3-1: Number of frequency layers for L1-RSRP measurement
    maxFreqLayersL1-Meas-r18                              SEQUENCE {
       supportedMaxIntraInterFreqLayersWithoutGaps-r18        INTEGER (1..8)                           OPTIONAL,
       supportedMaxInterFreqLayersWithGaps-r18                INTEGER (1..8)                           OPTIONAL
    }                                                                                                  OPTIONAL,
    -- R4 39-3-2: Number of neighbour cells to be measured per frequency layer
    maxNeighCellsPerFreqLayerL1-Meas-r18                  SEQUENCE {
       supportedMaxNeighCellsPerFreqLayersWithoutGaps-r18     INTEGER (1..8)                           OPTIONAL,
       supportedMaxNeighCellsPerFreqLayersWithGaps-r18        INTEGER (1..8)                           OPTIONAL
    }                                                                                                  OPTIONAL,
    -- R4 39-3-3: Number of total cells to be measured
    supportedMaxCellsWithoutGapsL1-Meas-r18               INTEGER (1..24)                              OPTIONAL,
    -- R4 39-3-4: Number of SSB resources for L1-RSRP measurement within a slot
    supportedMaxSSB-WithinSlotL1-Meas-r18                 ENUMERATED {n1,n2,n3,n4,n5,n6,n7,n8,n16,n32,n48,n64}        OPTIONAL,
    dummy                                                 SEQUENCE {
       supportedMaxSSB-PerFreqLayerWithoutGaps-r18            INTEGER (1..8)                            OPTIONAL,
       supportedMaxSSB-PerFreqLayerWithGaps-r18               INTEGER (1..8)                            OPTIONAL
    }                                                                                                   OPTIONAL,
    -- R4 39-3-6: Number of total SSB resources to be measured
    supportedMaxSSB-L1-Meas-r18                           ENUMERATED {n2,n4,n8,n12,n16,n32,n64}         OPTIONAL,
    -- R1 49-13: Default QCL assumption for multi-cell scheduling by DCI format 1_3
    qcl-MultiCellDCI-1-3-r18                              ENUMERATED {diff, both}                       OPTIONAL,
    -- R1 49-14: Support of BWP switch indication by DCI format 0_3/1_3
    bwp-SwitchingDCI-0-3-And-1-3-r18                      ENUMERATED {supported}                        OPTIONAL
}

CA-ParametersNR-v1860 ::= SEQUENCE {
    -- R4 39-3-5: Number of SSB resources for L1-RSRP measurement per frequency layer
    maxSSB-PerFreqLayerL1-Meas-r18                  SEQUENCE {
        supportedMaxSSB-PerFreqLayerWithoutGaps-r18     ENUMERATED {n1,n2,n3,n4,n5,n6,n7,n8,n12,n16,n20,n24}  OPTIONAL,
        supportedMaxSSB-PerFreqLayerWithGaps-r18        INTEGER (1..8)                                  OPTIONAL
    }                                                                                                   OPTIONAL
}

CrossCarrierSchedulingSCell-SpCell-r17 ::= SEQUENCE {
    supportedSCS-Combinations-r17              SEQUENCE {
        scs15kHz-15kHz-r17                         ENUMERATED {supported}                         OPTIONAL,
        scs15kHz-30kHz-r17                         ENUMERATED {supported}                         OPTIONAL,
        scs15kHz-60kHz-r17                         ENUMERATED {supported}                         OPTIONAL,
        scs30kHz-30kHz-r17                         BIT STRING (SIZE (1..496))                     OPTIONAL,
        scs30kHz-60kHz-r17                         BIT STRING (SIZE (1..496))                     OPTIONAL,
        scs60kHz-60kHz-r17                         BIT STRING (SIZE (1..496))                     OPTIONAL
    },
    pdcch-MonitoringOccasion-r17               ENUMERATED {val1, val2}
}

PDCCH-BlindDetectionMixedList-r16::=       SEQUENCE {
    pdcch-BlindDetectionCA-MixedExt-r16        CHOICE {
        pdcch-BlindDetectionCA-Mixed-v16a0                PDCCH-BlindDetectionCA-MixedExt-r16,
        pdcch-BlindDetectionCA-Mixed-NonAlignedSpan-v16a0 PDCCH-BlindDetectionCA-MixedExt-r16
    }                                                                                             OPTIONAL,
    pdcch-BlindDetectionCG-UE-MixedExt-r16     SEQUENCE{
    pdcch-BlindDetectionMCG-UE-Mixed-v16a0                PDCCH-BlindDetectionCG-UE-MixedExt-r16,
        pdcch-BlindDetectionSCG-UE-Mixed-v16a0            PDCCH-BlindDetectionCG-UE-MixedExt-r16
    }                                                                                             OPTIONAL
}

PDCCH-BlindDetectionCA-MixedExt-r16 ::=    SEQUENCE {
    pdcch-BlindDetectionCA1-r16                INTEGER (1..15),
    pdcch-BlindDetectionCA2-r16                INTEGER (1..15)
}

PDCCH-BlindDetectionCG-UE-MixedExt-r16 ::= SEQUENCE {
    pdcch-BlindDetectionCG-UE1-r16             INTEGER (0..15),
    pdcch-BlindDetectionCG-UE2-r16             INTEGER (0..15)
}

PDCCH-BlindDetectionMCG-SCG-r17 ::=        SEQUENCE {
    pdcch-BlindDetectionMCG-UE-r17             INTEGER (1..15),
    pdcch-BlindDetectionSCG-UE-r17             INTEGER (1..15)
}

PDCCH-BlindDetectionMixed-r17::=           SEQUENCE {
    pdcch-BlindDetectionCA-Mixed-r17           PDCCH-BlindDetectionCA-Mixed-r17                   OPTIONAL,
    pdcch-BlindDetectionCG-UE-Mixed-r17        SEQUENCE{
        pdcch-BlindDetectionMCG-UE-Mixed-v17       PDCCH-BlindDetectionCG-UE-Mixed-r17,
        pdcch-BlindDetectionSCG-UE-Mixed-v17       PDCCH-BlindDetectionCG-UE-Mixed-r17
    }                                                                                             OPTIONAL
}

PDCCH-BlindDetectionCG-UE-Mixed-r17 ::=    SEQUENCE {
    pdcch-BlindDetectionCG-UE1-r17             INTEGER (0..15),
    pdcch-BlindDetectionCG-UE2-r17             INTEGER (0..15)
}

PDCCH-BlindDetectionCA-Mixed-r17 ::=       SEQUENCE {
    pdcch-BlindDetectionCA1-r17                INTEGER (1..15)                                    OPTIONAL,
    pdcch-BlindDetectionCA2-r17                INTEGER (1..15)                                    OPTIONAL
}
PDCCH-BlindDetectionMixed1-r17::=          SEQUENCE {
    pdcch-BlindDetectionCA-Mixed1-r17          PDCCH-BlindDetectionCA-Mixed1-r17                  OPTIONAL,
    pdcch-BlindDetectionCG-UE-Mixed1-r17       SEQUENCE{
        pdcch-BlindDetectionMCG-UE-Mixed1-v17      PDCCH-BlindDetectionCG-UE-Mixed1-r17,
        pdcch-BlindDetectionSCG-UE-Mixed1-v17      PDCCH-BlindDetectionCG-UE-Mixed1-r17
    }                                                                                             OPTIONAL
}

PDCCH-BlindDetectionCG-UE-Mixed1-r17 ::=   SEQUENCE {
    pdcch-BlindDetectionCG-UE1-r17             INTEGER (0..15),
    pdcch-BlindDetectionCG-UE2-r17             INTEGER (0..15),
    pdcch-BlindDetectionCG-UE3-r17             INTEGER (0..15)
}

PDCCH-BlindDetectionCA-Mixed1-r17 ::=      SEQUENCE {
    pdcch-BlindDetectionCA1-r17                INTEGER (1..15)                                    OPTIONAL,
    pdcch-BlindDetectionCA2-r17                INTEGER (1..15)                                    OPTIONAL,
    pdcch-BlindDetectionCA3-r17                INTEGER (1..15)                                    OPTIONAL
}

PDCCH-BlindDetectionMixed2-r18 ::=         SEQUENCE{
    pdcch-BlindDetectionMCG-UE-Mixed-r18       PDCCH-BlindDetectionCG-UE-MixedExt-r16,
    pdcch-BlindDetectionSCG-UE-Mixed-r18       PDCCH-BlindDetectionCG-UE-MixedExt-r16
}

SimulSRS-ForAntennaSwitching-r16 ::= SEQUENCE {
    supportSRS-xTyR-xLessThanY-r16       ENUMERATED {supported}                     OPTIONAL,
    supportSRS-xTyR-xEqualToY-r16        ENUMERATED {supported}                     OPTIONAL,
    supportSRS-AntennaSwitching-r16      ENUMERATED {supported}                     OPTIONAL
}

TwoPUCCH-Grp-Configurations-r16 ::=  SEQUENCE {
    pucch-PrimaryGroupMapping-r16        TwoPUCCH-Grp-ConfigParams-r16,
    pucch-SecondaryGroupMapping-r16      TwoPUCCH-Grp-ConfigParams-r16
}

TwoPUCCH-Grp-Configurations-r17 ::=  SEQUENCE {
    primaryPUCCH-GroupConfig-r17         PUCCH-Group-Config-r17,
    secondaryPUCCH-GroupConfig-r17       PUCCH-Group-Config-r17
}

TwoPUCCH-Grp-ConfigParams-r16 ::=    SEQUENCE {
    pucch-GroupMapping-r16               PUCCH-Grp-CarrierTypes-r16,
    pucch-TX-r16                         PUCCH-Grp-CarrierTypes-r16
}


CarrierTypePair-r16 ::=             SEQUENCE {
    carrierForCSI-Measurement-r16       PUCCH-Grp-CarrierTypes-r16,
    carrierForCSI-Reporting-r16         PUCCH-Grp-CarrierTypes-r16
}

PUCCH-Grp-CarrierTypes-r16 ::=       SEQUENCE {
    fr1-NonSharedTDD-r16                 ENUMERATED {supported}                     OPTIONAL,
    fr1-SharedTDD-r16                    ENUMERATED {supported}                     OPTIONAL,
    fr1-NonSharedFDD-r16                 ENUMERATED {supported}                     OPTIONAL,
    fr2-r16                              ENUMERATED {supported}                     OPTIONAL
}

PUCCH-Group-Config-r17 ::=           SEQUENCE {
    fr1-FR1-NonSharedTDD-r17             ENUMERATED {supported}                     OPTIONAL,
    fr2-FR2-NonSharedTDD-r17             ENUMERATED {supported}                     OPTIONAL,
    fr1-FR2-NonSharedTDD-r17             ENUMERATED {supported}                     OPTIONAL
}

CombinationCarrierType-r18 ::=       SEQUENCE {
    schedulingCellCarrierType-r18        ENUMERATED {licensed-fdd-fr1, licensed-tdd-fr1, unlicensed-tdd-fr1, fr2-1, fr2-2},
    scheduledCellCarrierType-r18         ENUMERATED {licensed-fdd-fr1, licensed-tdd-fr1, unlicensed-tdd-fr1, fr2-1, fr2-2}
}

-- TAG-CA-PARAMETERSNR-STOP
-- ASN1STOP



–	CA-ParametersNRDC
The IE CA-ParametersNRDC contains dual connectivity related capabilities that are defined per band combination.
CA-ParametersNRDC information element
-- ASN1START
-- TAG-CA-PARAMETERS-NRDC-START

CA-ParametersNRDC ::=                         SEQUENCE {
     ca-ParametersNR-ForDC                       CA-ParametersNR                              OPTIONAL,
     ca-ParametersNR-ForDC-v1540                 CA-ParametersNR-v1540                        OPTIONAL,
     ca-ParametersNR-ForDC-v1550                 CA-ParametersNR-v1550                        OPTIONAL,
     ca-ParametersNR-ForDC-v1560                 CA-ParametersNR-v1560                        OPTIONAL,
     featureSetCombinationDC                     FeatureSetCombinationId                      OPTIONAL
}

CA-ParametersNRDC-v15g0 ::=                  SEQUENCE {
    ca-ParametersNR-ForDC-v15g0                   CA-ParametersNR-v15g0                        OPTIONAL
}

CA-ParametersNRDC-v1610 ::= SEQUENCE {
    -- R1 18-1: Semi-static power sharing mode1 between MCG and SCG cells of same FR for NR dual connectivity
    intraFR-NR-DC-PwrSharingMode1-r16        ENUMERATED {supported}         OPTIONAL,
    -- R1 18-1a: Semi-static power sharing mode 2 between MCG and SCG cells of same FR for NR dual connectivity
    intraFR-NR-DC-PwrSharingMode2-r16        ENUMERATED {supported}         OPTIONAL,
    -- R1 18-1b: Dynamic power sharing between MCG and SCG cells of same FR for NR dual connectivity
    intraFR-NR-DC-DynamicPwrSharing-r16      ENUMERATED {short, long}       OPTIONAL,
    asyncNRDC-r16                            ENUMERATED {supported}         OPTIONAL
}

CA-ParametersNRDC-v1630 ::=                         SEQUENCE {
     ca-ParametersNR-ForDC-v1610                 CA-ParametersNR-v1610                        OPTIONAL,
     ca-ParametersNR-ForDC-v1630                 CA-ParametersNR-v1630                        OPTIONAL
}

CA-ParametersNRDC-v1640 ::=                  SEQUENCE {
    ca-ParametersNR-ForDC-v1640                  CA-ParametersNR-v1640                        OPTIONAL
}

CA-ParametersNRDC-v1650 ::=                  SEQUENCE {
    supportedCellGrouping-r16                    BIT STRING (SIZE (1..maxCellGroupings-r16))  OPTIONAL
}

CA-ParametersNRDC-v16a0 ::=                  SEQUENCE {
    ca-ParametersNR-ForDC-v16a0                  CA-ParametersNR-v16a0                        OPTIONAL
}

CA-ParametersNRDC-v16j0 ::=                  SEQUENCE {
    ca-ParametersNR-ForDC-v16j0                  CA-ParametersNR-v1690                        OPTIONAL
}

CA-ParametersNRDC-v1700 ::=                   SEQUENCE {
    -- R1 31-9: Indicates the support of simultaneous transmission and reception of an IAB-node from multiple parent nodes
    simultaneousRxTx-IAB-MultipleParents-r17     ENUMERATED {supported}                       OPTIONAL,
    condPSCellAdditionNRDC-r17                   ENUMERATED {supported}                       OPTIONAL,
    scg-ActivationDeactivationNRDC-r17           ENUMERATED {supported}                       OPTIONAL,
    scg-ActivationDeactivationResumeNRDC-r17     ENUMERATED {supported}                       OPTIONAL,
    beamManagementType-CBM-r17                   ENUMERATED {supported}                       OPTIONAL
}

CA-ParametersNRDC-v1720 ::=                  SEQUENCE {
    ca-ParametersNR-ForDC-v1700                  CA-ParametersNR-v1700                        OPTIONAL,
    ca-ParametersNR-ForDC-v1720                  CA-ParametersNR-v1720                        OPTIONAL
}

CA-ParametersNRDC-v1730 ::=                  SEQUENCE {
    ca-ParametersNR-ForDC-v1730                   CA-ParametersNR-v1730                       OPTIONAL
}

CA-ParametersNRDC-v1760 ::=                  SEQUENCE {
    ca-ParametersNR-ForDC-v1760                  CA-ParametersNR-v1760
}

CA-ParametersNRDC-v1780 ::=                  SEQUENCE {
    ca-ParametersNR-ForDC-v1780                  CA-ParametersNR-v1780                        OPTIONAL
}

CA-ParametersNRDC-v17b0 ::=                  SEQUENCE {
    ca-ParametersNR-ForDC-v17b0                   CA-ParametersNR-v1740                        OPTIONAL
}

CA-ParametersNRDC-v1800 ::=                  SEQUENCE {
    ca-ParametersNR-ForDC-v1800                  CA-ParametersNR-v1800                        OPTIONAL,
    -- R1 55-6d: Capability on the number of CCs for monitoring a maximum number of BDs and non-overlapped CCEs per span for MCG and for
    -- SCG when configured for NR-DC operation with Rel-16 PDCCH monitoring on all the serving cells
    pdcch-BlindDetectionNRDC-r18                 SEQUENCE(SIZE (1..maxNrofPdcch-BlindDetectionMixed-1-r16)) OF
                                                          PDCCH-BlindDetectionMixed1-r18      OPTIONAL
}

CA-ParametersNRDC-v1830 ::=                  SEQUENCE {
    ca-ParametersNR-ForDC-v1830                  CA-ParametersNR-v1830                        OPTIONAL
}

PDCCH-BlindDetectionMixed1-r18::=            SEQUENCE {
    pdcch-BlindDetectionCG-UE-Mixed-r18          SEQUENCE{
        pdcch-BlindDetectionMCG-UE-Mixed-r18         INTEGER (1..15),
        pdcch-BlindDetectionSCG-UE-Mixed-r18         INTEGER (1..15)
    }
}

-- TAG-CA-PARAMETERS-NRDC-STOP
-- ASN1STOP



–	CarrierAggregationVariant
The IE CarrierAggregationVariant informs the network about supported "placement" of the SpCell in an NR cell group.
CarrierAggregationVariant information element
-- ASN1START
-- TAG-CARRIERAGGREGATIONVARIANT-START

CarrierAggregationVariant ::=          SEQUENCE {
    fr1fdd-FR1TDD-CA-SpCellOnFR1FDD         ENUMERATED {supported}                      OPTIONAL,
    fr1fdd-FR1TDD-CA-SpCellOnFR1TDD         ENUMERATED {supported}                      OPTIONAL,
    fr1fdd-FR2TDD-CA-SpCellOnFR1FDD         ENUMERATED {supported}                      OPTIONAL,
    fr1fdd-FR2TDD-CA-SpCellOnFR2TDD         ENUMERATED {supported}                      OPTIONAL,
    fr1tdd-FR2TDD-CA-SpCellOnFR1TDD         ENUMERATED {supported}                      OPTIONAL,
    fr1tdd-FR2TDD-CA-SpCellOnFR2TDD         ENUMERATED {supported}                      OPTIONAL,
    fr1fdd-FR1TDD-FR2TDD-CA-SpCellOnFR1FDD  ENUMERATED {supported}                      OPTIONAL,
    fr1fdd-FR1TDD-FR2TDD-CA-SpCellOnFR1TDD  ENUMERATED {supported}                      OPTIONAL,
    fr1fdd-FR1TDD-FR2TDD-CA-SpCellOnFR2TDD  ENUMERATED {supported}                      OPTIONAL
}

-- TAG-CARRIERAGGREGATIONVARIANT-STOP
-- ASN1STOP

–	CodebookParameters
The IE CodebookParameters is used to convey codebook related parameters.
CodebookParameters information element
-- ASN1START
-- TAG-CODEBOOKPARAMETERS-START

CodebookParameters ::=             SEQUENCE {
    type1                                  SEQUENCE {
        singlePanel                           SEQUENCE {
            supportedCSI-RS-ResourceList      SEQUENCE (SIZE (1.. maxNrofCSI-RS-Resources)) OF SupportedCSI-RS-Resource,
            modes                                  ENUMERATED {mode1, mode1andMode2},
            maxNumberCSI-RS-PerResourceSet    INTEGER (1..8)
        },
        multiPanel                            SEQUENCE {
            supportedCSI-RS-ResourceList      SEQUENCE (SIZE (1.. maxNrofCSI-RS-Resources)) OF SupportedCSI-RS-Resource,
            modes                                  ENUMERATED {mode1, mode2, both},
            nrofPanels                            ENUMERATED {n2, n4},
            maxNumberCSI-RS-PerResourceSet    INTEGER (1..8)
        }                                                                                                               OPTIONAL
    },
    type2                                  SEQUENCE {
        supportedCSI-RS-ResourceList        SEQUENCE (SIZE (1.. maxNrofCSI-RS-Resources)) OF SupportedCSI-RS-Resource,
        parameterLx                           INTEGER (2..4),
        amplitudeScalingType                 ENUMERATED {wideband, widebandAndSubband},
        amplitudeSubsetRestriction          ENUMERATED {supported}              OPTIONAL
    }                                                                                                                   OPTIONAL,
    type2-PortSelection                  SEQUENCE {
        supportedCSI-RS-ResourceList        SEQUENCE (SIZE (1.. maxNrofCSI-RS-Resources)) OF SupportedCSI-RS-Resource,
        parameterLx                           INTEGER (2..4),
        amplitudeScalingType                 ENUMERATED {wideband, widebandAndSubband}
    }                                                                                                                   OPTIONAL
}

CodebookParameters-v1610 ::=        SEQUENCE {
    supportedCSI-RS-ResourceListAlt-r16  SEQUENCE {
        type1-SinglePanel-r16                SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxNrofCSI-RS-Resources)) OF INTEGER (0..maxNrofCSI-RS-ResourcesAlt-1-r16)  OPTIONAL,
        type1-MultiPanel-r16                 SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxNrofCSI-RS-Resources)) OF INTEGER (0..maxNrofCSI-RS-ResourcesAlt-1-r16)  OPTIONAL,
        type2-r16                            SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxNrofCSI-RS-Resources)) OF INTEGER (0..maxNrofCSI-RS-ResourcesAlt-1-r16)  OPTIONAL,
        type2-PortSelection-r16              SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxNrofCSI-RS-Resources)) OF INTEGER (0..maxNrofCSI-RS-ResourcesAlt-1-r16)  OPTIONAL
    }                                                                                                                                       OPTIONAL
}

CodebookParametersAddition-r16 ::=      SEQUENCE {
    etype2-r16                             SEQUENCE {
        -- R1 16-3a Regular eType 2 R=1
        etype2R1-r16                           SEQUENCE {
            supportedCSI-RS-ResourceListAdd-r16    SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxNrofCSI-RS-ResourcesExt-r16)) OF
                                                                                              INTEGER (0..maxNrofCSI-RS-ResourcesAlt-1-r16)
        },
        -- R1 16-3a-1 Regular eType 2 R=2
        etype2R2-r16                           SEQUENCE {
            supportedCSI-RS-ResourceListAdd-r16    SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxNrofCSI-RS-ResourcesExt-r16)) OF
                                                                                              INTEGER (0..maxNrofCSI-RS-ResourcesAlt-1-r16)
        }                                                                  OPTIONAL,
        -- R1 16-3a-2: Support of parameter combinations 7-8
        paramComb7-8-r16                       ENUMERATED {supported}      OPTIONAL,
        -- R1 16-3a-3: Support of rank 3,4
        rank3-4-r16                            ENUMERATED {supported}      OPTIONAL,
        -- R1 16-3a-4: CBSR with soft amplitude restriction
        amplitudeSubsetRestriction-r16         ENUMERATED {supported}      OPTIONAL
    }                                                                      OPTIONAL,
    etype2-PS-r16                          SEQUENCE {
        -- R1 16-3b Regular eType 2 R=1 PortSelection
        etype2R1-PortSelection-r16             SEQUENCE {
            supportedCSI-RS-ResourceListAdd-r16    SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxNrofCSI-RS-ResourcesExt-r16)) OF
                                                                                              INTEGER (0..maxNrofCSI-RS-ResourcesAlt-1-r16)
        },
        -- R1 16-3b-1 Regular eType 2 R=2 PortSelection
        etype2R2-PortSelection-r16             SEQUENCE {
            supportedCSI-RS-ResourceListAdd-r16    SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxNrofCSI-RS-ResourcesExt-r16)) OF
                                                                                              INTEGER (0..maxNrofCSI-RS-ResourcesAlt-1-r16)
        }                                                                  OPTIONAL,
        -- R1 16-3b-2: Support of rank 3,4
        rank3-4-r16                            ENUMERATED {supported}      OPTIONAL
    }                                                                      OPTIONAL
}

CodebookComboParametersAddition-r16 ::= SEQUENCE {
    -- R1 16-8 Mixed codebook types
    type1SP-Type2-null-r16                 SEQUENCE {
        supportedCSI-RS-ResourceListAdd-r16    SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxNrofCSI-RS-ResourcesExt-r16)) OF INTEGER (0..maxNrofCSI-RS-ResourcesAlt-1-r16)
    }                                                          OPTIONAL,
    type1SP-Type2PS-null-r16               SEQUENCE {
        supportedCSI-RS-ResourceListAdd-r16    SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxNrofCSI-RS-ResourcesExt-r16)) OF INTEGER (0..maxNrofCSI-RS-ResourcesAlt-1-r16)
    }                                                          OPTIONAL,
    type1SP-eType2R1-null-r16              SEQUENCE {
        supportedCSI-RS-ResourceListAdd-r16    SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxNrofCSI-RS-ResourcesExt-r16)) OF INTEGER (0..maxNrofCSI-RS-ResourcesAlt-1-r16)
    }                                                          OPTIONAL,
    type1SP-eType2R2-null-r16              SEQUENCE {
        supportedCSI-RS-ResourceListAdd-r16    SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxNrofCSI-RS-ResourcesExt-r16)) OF INTEGER (0..maxNrofCSI-RS-ResourcesAlt-1-r16)
    }                                                          OPTIONAL,
    type1SP-eType2R1PS-null-r16            SEQUENCE {
        supportedCSI-RS-ResourceListAdd-r16    SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxNrofCSI-RS-ResourcesExt-r16)) OF INTEGER (0..maxNrofCSI-RS-ResourcesAlt-1-r16)
    }                                                          OPTIONAL,
    type1SP-eType2R2PS-null-r16            SEQUENCE {
        supportedCSI-RS-ResourceListAdd-r16    SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxNrofCSI-RS-ResourcesExt-r16)) OF INTEGER (0..maxNrofCSI-RS-ResourcesAlt-1-r16)
    }                                                          OPTIONAL,
    type1SP-Type2-Type2PS-r16              SEQUENCE {
        supportedCSI-RS-ResourceListAdd-r16    SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxNrofCSI-RS-ResourcesExt-r16)) OF INTEGER (0..maxNrofCSI-RS-ResourcesAlt-1-r16)
    }                                                          OPTIONAL,
    type1MP-Type2-null-r16                 SEQUENCE {
    supportedCSI-RS-ResourceListAdd-r16        SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxNrofCSI-RS-ResourcesExt-r16)) OF INTEGER (0..maxNrofCSI-RS-ResourcesAlt-1-r16)
    }                                                          OPTIONAL,
    type1MP-Type2PS-null-r16               SEQUENCE {
        supportedCSI-RS-ResourceListAdd-r16    SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxNrofCSI-RS-ResourcesExt-r16)) OF INTEGER (0..maxNrofCSI-RS-ResourcesAlt-1-r16)
    }                                                          OPTIONAL,
    type1MP-eType2R1-null-r16              SEQUENCE {
        supportedCSI-RS-ResourceListAdd-r16    SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxNrofCSI-RS-ResourcesExt-r16)) OF INTEGER (0..maxNrofCSI-RS-ResourcesAlt-1-r16)
    }                                                          OPTIONAL,
    type1MP-eType2R2-null-r16              SEQUENCE {
        supportedCSI-RS-ResourceListAdd-r16    SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxNrofCSI-RS-ResourcesExt-r16)) OF INTEGER (0..maxNrofCSI-RS-ResourcesAlt-1-r16)
    }                                                          OPTIONAL,
    type1MP-eType2R1PS-null-r16            SEQUENCE {
        supportedCSI-RS-ResourceListAdd-r16    SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxNrofCSI-RS-ResourcesExt-r16)) OF INTEGER (0..maxNrofCSI-RS-ResourcesAlt-1-r16)
    }                                                          OPTIONAL,
    type1MP-eType2R2PS-null-r16            SEQUENCE {
        supportedCSI-RS-ResourceListAdd-r16    SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxNrofCSI-RS-ResourcesExt-r16)) OF INTEGER (0..maxNrofCSI-RS-ResourcesAlt-1-r16)
    }                                                          OPTIONAL,
    type1MP-Type2-Type2PS-r16              SEQUENCE {
        supportedCSI-RS-ResourceListAdd-r16    SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxNrofCSI-RS-ResourcesExt-r16)) OF INTEGER (0..maxNrofCSI-RS-ResourcesAlt-1-r16)
    }                                                          OPTIONAL
}

CodebookParametersfetype2-r17 ::= SEQUENCE {
    -- R1 23-9-1  Basic Features of Further Enhanced Port-Selection Type II Codebook (FeType-II)
    fetype2basic-r17        SEQUENCE (SIZE (1.. maxNrofCSI-RS-ResourcesExt-r16)) OF INTEGER (0..maxNrofCSI-RS-ResourcesAlt-1-r16),
    -- R1 23-9-2  Support of M=2 and R=1 for FeType-II
    fetype2R1-r17           SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxNrofCSI-RS-ResourcesExt-r17)) OF INTEGER (0.. maxNrofCSI-RS-ResourcesAlt-1-r16)
                                                       OPTIONAL,
    -- R1 23-9-4  Support of R = 2 for FeType-II
    fetype2R2-r17           SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxNrofCSI-RS-ResourcesExt-r17)) OF INTEGER (0.. maxNrofCSI-RS-ResourcesAlt-1-r16)
                                                       OPTIONAL,
    -- R1 23-9-3  Support of rank 3, 4 for FeType-II
    fetype2Rank3Rank4-r17   ENUMERATED {supported}     OPTIONAL
}

CodebookComboParameterMixedType-r17 ::= SEQUENCE {
    -- R1 23-9-5 Active CSI-RS resources and ports for mixed codebook types in any slot
    type1SP-feType2PS-null-r17              SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxNrofCSI-RS-ResourcesExt-r16)) OF INTEGER (0..maxNrofCSI-RS-ResourcesAlt-1-r16)
                                                               OPTIONAL,
    type1SP-feType2PS-M2R1-null-r17         SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxNrofCSI-RS-ResourcesExt-r16)) OF INTEGER (0..maxNrofCSI-RS-ResourcesAlt-1-r16)
                                                               OPTIONAL,
    type1SP-feType2PS-M2R2-null-r1          SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxNrofCSI-RS-ResourcesExt-r16)) OF INTEGER (0..maxNrofCSI-RS-ResourcesAlt-1-r16)
                                                               OPTIONAL,
    type1SP-Type2-feType2-PS-M1-r17         SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxNrofCSI-RS-ResourcesExt-r16)) OF INTEGER (0..maxNrofCSI-RS-ResourcesAlt-1-r16)
                                                               OPTIONAL,
    type1SP-Type2-feType2-PS-M2R1-r17       SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxNrofCSI-RS-ResourcesExt-r16)) OF INTEGER (0..maxNrofCSI-RS-ResourcesAlt-1-r16)
                                                               OPTIONAL,
    type1SP-eType2R1-feType2-PS-M1-r17      SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxNrofCSI-RS-ResourcesExt-r16)) OF INTEGER (0..maxNrofCSI-RS-ResourcesAlt-1-r16)
                                                               OPTIONAL,
    type1SP-eType2R1-feType2-PS-M2R1-r17    SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxNrofCSI-RS-ResourcesExt-r16)) OF INTEGER (0..maxNrofCSI-RS-ResourcesAlt-1-r16)
                                                               OPTIONAL,
    type1MP-feType2PS-null-r17              SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxNrofCSI-RS-ResourcesExt-r16)) OF INTEGER (0..maxNrofCSI-RS-ResourcesAlt-1-r16)
                                                               OPTIONAL,
    type1MP-feType2PS-M2R1-null-r17         SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxNrofCSI-RS-ResourcesExt-r16)) OF INTEGER (0..maxNrofCSI-RS-ResourcesAlt-1-r16)
                                                               OPTIONAL,
    type1MP-feType2PS-M2R2-null-r17         SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxNrofCSI-RS-ResourcesExt-r16)) OF INTEGER (0..maxNrofCSI-RS-ResourcesAlt-1-r16)
                                                               OPTIONAL,
    type1MP-Type2-feType2-PS-M1-r17         SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxNrofCSI-RS-ResourcesExt-r16)) OF INTEGER (0..maxNrofCSI-RS-ResourcesAlt-1-r16)
                                                               OPTIONAL,
    type1MP-Type2-feType2-PS-M2R1-r17       SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxNrofCSI-RS-ResourcesExt-r16)) OF INTEGER (0..maxNrofCSI-RS-ResourcesAlt-1-r16)
                                                               OPTIONAL,
    type1MP-eType2R1-feType2-PS-M1-r17      SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxNrofCSI-RS-ResourcesExt-r16)) OF INTEGER (0..maxNrofCSI-RS-ResourcesAlt-1-r16)
                                                               OPTIONAL,
    type1MP-eType2R1-feType2-PS-M2R1-r17    SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxNrofCSI-RS-ResourcesExt-r16)) OF INTEGER (0..maxNrofCSI-RS-ResourcesAlt-1-r16)
                                                               OPTIONAL
}

CodebookComboParameterMultiTRP-r17::= SEQUENCE {
    -- R1 23-7-1b	Active CSI-RS resources and ports in the presence of multi-TRP CSI
    --  {Codebook 2, Codebook 3} =(NULL, NULL}
    nCJT-null-null                        SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxNrofCSI-RS-ResourcesExt-r16)) OF INTEGER (0..maxNrofCSI-RS-ResourcesAlt-1-r16)
                                                               OPTIONAL,
    nCJT1SP-null-null                     SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxNrofCSI-RS-ResourcesExt-r16)) OF INTEGER (0..maxNrofCSI-RS-ResourcesAlt-1-r16)
                                                               OPTIONAL,
    --    {Codebook 2, Codebook 3} = {( {"Rel 16 combinations in FG 16-8"}
    nCJT-Type2-null-r16                   SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxNrofCSI-RS-ResourcesExt-r16)) OF INTEGER (0..maxNrofCSI-RS-ResourcesAlt-1-r16)
                                                               OPTIONAL,
    nCJT-Type2PS-null-r16                 SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxNrofCSI-RS-ResourcesExt-r16)) OF INTEGER (0..maxNrofCSI-RS-ResourcesAlt-1-r16)
                                                               OPTIONAL,
    nCJT-eType2R1-null-r16                SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxNrofCSI-RS-ResourcesExt-r16)) OF INTEGER (0..maxNrofCSI-RS-ResourcesAlt-1-r16)
                                                               OPTIONAL,
    nCJT-eType2R2-null-r16                SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxNrofCSI-RS-ResourcesExt-r16)) OF INTEGER (0..maxNrofCSI-RS-ResourcesAlt-1-r16)
                                                               OPTIONAL,
    nCJT-eType2R1PS-null-r16              SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxNrofCSI-RS-ResourcesExt-r16)) OF INTEGER (0..maxNrofCSI-RS-ResourcesAlt-1-r16)
                                                               OPTIONAL,
    nCJT-eType2R2PS-null-r16              SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxNrofCSI-RS-ResourcesExt-r16)) OF INTEGER (0..maxNrofCSI-RS-ResourcesAlt-1-r16)
                                                               OPTIONAL,
    nCJT-Type2-Type2PS-r16                SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxNrofCSI-RS-ResourcesExt-r16)) OF INTEGER (0..maxNrofCSI-RS-ResourcesAlt-1-r16)
                                                               OPTIONAL,
    nCJT1SP-Type2-null-r16                SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxNrofCSI-RS-ResourcesExt-r16)) OF INTEGER (0..maxNrofCSI-RS-ResourcesAlt-1-r16)
                                                               OPTIONAL,
    nCJT1SP-Type2PS-null-r16              SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxNrofCSI-RS-ResourcesExt-r16)) OF INTEGER (0..maxNrofCSI-RS-ResourcesAlt-1-r16)
                                                               OPTIONAL,
    nCJT1SP-eType2R1-null-r16             SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxNrofCSI-RS-ResourcesExt-r16)) OF INTEGER (0..maxNrofCSI-RS-ResourcesAlt-1-r16)
                                                               OPTIONAL,
    nCJT1SP-eType2R2-null-r16             SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxNrofCSI-RS-ResourcesExt-r16)) OF INTEGER (0..maxNrofCSI-RS-ResourcesAlt-1-r16)
                                                               OPTIONAL,
    nCJT1SP-eType2R1PS-null-r16           SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxNrofCSI-RS-ResourcesExt-r16)) OF INTEGER (0..maxNrofCSI-RS-ResourcesAlt-1-r16)
                                                               OPTIONAL,
    nCJT1SP-eType2R2PS-null-r16           SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxNrofCSI-RS-ResourcesExt-r16)) OF INTEGER (0..maxNrofCSI-RS-ResourcesAlt-1-r16)
                                                               OPTIONAL,
    nCJT1SP-Type2-Type2PS-r16             SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxNrofCSI-RS-ResourcesExt-r16)) OF INTEGER (0..maxNrofCSI-RS-ResourcesAlt-1-r16)
                                                               OPTIONAL,
    -- {Codebook 2, Codebook 3} = {"New Rel17 combinations in FG 23-9-5"}
    nCJT-feType2PS-null-r17               SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxNrofCSI-RS-ResourcesExt-r16)) OF INTEGER (0..maxNrofCSI-RS-ResourcesAlt-1-r16)
                                                               OPTIONAL,
    nCJT-feType2PS-M2R1-null-r17          SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxNrofCSI-RS-ResourcesExt-r16)) OF INTEGER (0..maxNrofCSI-RS-ResourcesAlt-1-r16)
                                                               OPTIONAL,
    nCJT-feType2PS-M2R2-null-r17          SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxNrofCSI-RS-ResourcesExt-r16)) OF INTEGER (0..maxNrofCSI-RS-ResourcesAlt-1-r16)
                                                               OPTIONAL,
    nCJT-Type2-feType2-PS-M1-r17          SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxNrofCSI-RS-ResourcesExt-r16)) OF INTEGER (0..maxNrofCSI-RS-ResourcesAlt-1-r16)
                                                               OPTIONAL,
    nCJT-Type2-feType2-PS-M2R1-r17        SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxNrofCSI-RS-ResourcesExt-r16)) OF INTEGER (0..maxNrofCSI-RS-ResourcesAlt-1-r16)
                                                               OPTIONAL,
    nCJT-eType2R1-feType2-PS-M1-r17       SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxNrofCSI-RS-ResourcesExt-r16)) OF INTEGER (0..maxNrofCSI-RS-ResourcesAlt-1-r16)
                                                               OPTIONAL,
    nCJT-eType2R1-feType2-PS-M2R1-r17     SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxNrofCSI-RS-ResourcesExt-r16)) OF INTEGER (0..maxNrofCSI-RS-ResourcesAlt-1-r16)
                                                               OPTIONAL,
    nCJT1SP-feType2PS-null-r17            SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxNrofCSI-RS-ResourcesExt-r16)) OF INTEGER (0..maxNrofCSI-RS-ResourcesAlt-1-r16)
                                                               OPTIONAL,
    nCJT1SP-feType2PS-M2R1-null-r17       SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxNrofCSI-RS-ResourcesExt-r16)) OF INTEGER (0..maxNrofCSI-RS-ResourcesAlt-1-r16)
                                                               OPTIONAL,
    nCJT1SP-feType2PS-M2R2-null-r1        SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxNrofCSI-RS-ResourcesExt-r16)) OF INTEGER (0..maxNrofCSI-RS-ResourcesAlt-1-r16)
                                                               OPTIONAL,
    nCJT1SP-Type2-feType2-PS-M1-r17       SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxNrofCSI-RS-ResourcesExt-r16)) OF INTEGER (0..maxNrofCSI-RS-ResourcesAlt-1-r16)
                                                               OPTIONAL,
    nCJT1SP-Type2-feType2-PS-M2R1-r17     SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxNrofCSI-RS-ResourcesExt-r16)) OF INTEGER (0..maxNrofCSI-RS-ResourcesAlt-1-r16)
                                                               OPTIONAL,
    nCJT1SP-eType2R1-feType2-PS-M1-r17    SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxNrofCSI-RS-ResourcesExt-r16)) OF INTEGER (0..maxNrofCSI-RS-ResourcesAlt-1-r16)
                                                               OPTIONAL,
    nCJT1SP-eType2R1-feType2-PS-M2R1-r17  SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxNrofCSI-RS-ResourcesExt-r16)) OF INTEGER (0..maxNrofCSI-RS-ResourcesAlt-1-r16)
                                                               OPTIONAL
}

CodebookParametersAdditionPerBC-r16::=  SEQUENCE {
    -- R1 16-3a Regular eType 2 R=1
    etype2R1-r16                    SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxNrofCSI-RS-ResourcesExt-r16)) OF INTEGER (0..maxNrofCSI-RS-ResourcesAlt-1-r16)
                                                               OPTIONAL,
    -- R1 16-3a-1 Regular eType 2 R=2
    etype2R2-r16                    SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxNrofCSI-RS-ResourcesExt-r16)) OF INTEGER (0..maxNrofCSI-RS-ResourcesAlt-1-r16)
                                                                      OPTIONAL,
    -- R1 16-3b Regular eType 2 R=1 PortSelection
    etype2R1-PortSelection-r16      SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxNrofCSI-RS-ResourcesExt-r16)) OF INTEGER (0..maxNrofCSI-RS-ResourcesAlt-1-r16)
                                                               OPTIONAL,
    -- R1 16-3b-1 Regular eType 2 R=2 PortSelection
    etype2R2-PortSelection-r16      SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxNrofCSI-RS-ResourcesExt-r16)) OF INTEGER (0..maxNrofCSI-RS-ResourcesAlt-1-r16)
                                                               OPTIONAL
}

CodebookComboParametersAdditionPerBC-r16::= SEQUENCE {
    -- R1 16-8 Mixed codebook types
    type1SP-Type2-null-r16          SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxNrofCSI-RS-ResourcesExt-r16)) OF INTEGER (0..maxNrofCSI-RS-ResourcesAlt-1-r16)
                                                               OPTIONAL,
    type1SP-Type2PS-null-r16        SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxNrofCSI-RS-ResourcesExt-r16)) OF INTEGER (0..maxNrofCSI-RS-ResourcesAlt-1-r16)
                                                               OPTIONAL,
    type1SP-eType2R1-null-r16       SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxNrofCSI-RS-ResourcesExt-r16)) OF INTEGER (0..maxNrofCSI-RS-ResourcesAlt-1-r16)
                                                               OPTIONAL,
    type1SP-eType2R2-null-r16       SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxNrofCSI-RS-ResourcesExt-r16)) OF INTEGER (0..maxNrofCSI-RS-ResourcesAlt-1-r16)
                                                               OPTIONAL,
    type1SP-eType2R1PS-null-r16     SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxNrofCSI-RS-ResourcesExt-r16)) OF INTEGER (0..maxNrofCSI-RS-ResourcesAlt-1-r16)
                                                               OPTIONAL,
    type1SP-eType2R2PS-null-r16     SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxNrofCSI-RS-ResourcesExt-r16)) OF INTEGER (0..maxNrofCSI-RS-ResourcesAlt-1-r16)
                                                               OPTIONAL,
    type1SP-Type2-Type2PS-r16       SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxNrofCSI-RS-ResourcesExt-r16)) OF INTEGER (0..maxNrofCSI-RS-ResourcesAlt-1-r16)
                                                               OPTIONAL,
    type1MP-Type2-null-r16          SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxNrofCSI-RS-ResourcesExt-r16)) OF INTEGER (0..maxNrofCSI-RS-ResourcesAlt-1-r16)
                                                               OPTIONAL,
    type1MP-Type2PS-null-r16        SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxNrofCSI-RS-ResourcesExt-r16)) OF INTEGER (0..maxNrofCSI-RS-ResourcesAlt-1-r16)
                                                               OPTIONAL,
    type1MP-eType2R1-null-r16       SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxNrofCSI-RS-ResourcesExt-r16)) OF INTEGER (0..maxNrofCSI-RS-ResourcesAlt-1-r16)
                                                               OPTIONAL,
    type1MP-eType2R2-null-r16       SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxNrofCSI-RS-ResourcesExt-r16)) OF INTEGER (0..maxNrofCSI-RS-ResourcesAlt-1-r16)
                                                               OPTIONAL,
    type1MP-eType2R1PS-null-r16     SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxNrofCSI-RS-ResourcesExt-r16)) OF INTEGER (0..maxNrofCSI-RS-ResourcesAlt-1-r16)
                                                               OPTIONAL,
    type1MP-eType2R2PS-null-r16     SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxNrofCSI-RS-ResourcesExt-r16)) OF INTEGER (0..maxNrofCSI-RS-ResourcesAlt-1-r16)
                                                               OPTIONAL,
    type1MP-Type2-Type2PS-r16       SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxNrofCSI-RS-ResourcesExt-r16)) OF INTEGER (0..maxNrofCSI-RS-ResourcesAlt-1-r16)
                                                               OPTIONAL
}

CodebookParametersfetype2PerBC-r17 ::= SEQUENCE {
    -- R1 23-9-1	Basic Features of Further Enhanced Port-Selection Type II Codebook (FeType-II)
    fetype2basic-r17    SEQUENCE (SIZE (1.. maxNrofCSI-RS-ResourcesExt-r16)) OF INTEGER (0..maxNrofCSI-RS-ResourcesAlt-1-r16),
    -- R1 23-9-2	Support of M=2 and R=1 for FeType-II
    fetype2R1-r17       SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxNrofCSI-RS-ResourcesExt-r17)) OF INTEGER (0.. maxNrofCSI-RS-ResourcesAlt-1-r16)
                                  OPTIONAL,
    -- R1 23-9-4	Support of R = 2 for FeType-II
    fetype2R2-r17       SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxNrofCSI-RS-ResourcesExt-r17)) OF INTEGER (0.. maxNrofCSI-RS-ResourcesAlt-1-r16)
                                  OPTIONAL
}

CodebookComboParameterMixedTypePerBC-r17 ::= SEQUENCE {
    -- R1 23-9-5 Active CSI-RS resources and ports for mixed codebook types in any slot
    type1SP-feType2PS-null-r17      SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxNrofCSI-RS-ResourcesExt-r16)) OF INTEGER (0..maxNrofCSI-RS-ResourcesAlt-1-r16)
                                                               OPTIONAL,
    type1SP-feType2PS-M2R1-null-r17 SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxNrofCSI-RS-ResourcesExt-r16)) OF INTEGER (0..maxNrofCSI-RS-ResourcesAlt-1-r16)
                                                               OPTIONAL,
    type1SP-feType2PS-M2R2-null-r17 SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxNrofCSI-RS-ResourcesExt-r16)) OF INTEGER (0..maxNrofCSI-RS-ResourcesAlt-1-r16)
                                                              OPTIONAL,
    type1SP-Type2-feType2-PS-M1-r17 SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxNrofCSI-RS-ResourcesExt-r16)) OF INTEGER (0..maxNrofCSI-RS-ResourcesAlt-1-r16)
                                                               OPTIONAL,
    type1SP-Type2-feType2-PS-M2R1-r17 SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxNrofCSI-RS-ResourcesExt-r16)) OF INTEGER (0..maxNrofCSI-RS-ResourcesAlt-1-r16)
                                                               OPTIONAL,
    type1SP-eType2R1-feType2-PS-M1-r17 SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxNrofCSI-RS-ResourcesExt-r16)) OF INTEGER (0..maxNrofCSI-RS-ResourcesAlt-1-r16)
                                                               OPTIONAL,
    type1SP-eType2R1-feType2-PS-M2R1-r17 SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxNrofCSI-RS-ResourcesExt-r16)) OF INTEGER (0..maxNrofCSI-RS-ResourcesAlt-1-r16)
                                                               OPTIONAL,
    type1MP-feType2PS-null-r17      SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxNrofCSI-RS-ResourcesExt-r16)) OF INTEGER (0..maxNrofCSI-RS-ResourcesAlt-1-r16)
                                                               OPTIONAL,
    type1MP-feType2PS-M2R1-null-r17 SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxNrofCSI-RS-ResourcesExt-r16)) OF INTEGER (0..maxNrofCSI-RS-ResourcesAlt-1-r16)
                                                               OPTIONAL,
    type1MP-feType2PS-M2R2-null-r17 SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxNrofCSI-RS-ResourcesExt-r16)) OF INTEGER (0..maxNrofCSI-RS-ResourcesAlt-1-r16)
                                                               OPTIONAL,
    type1MP-Type2-feType2-PS-M1-r17 SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxNrofCSI-RS-ResourcesExt-r16)) OF INTEGER (0..maxNrofCSI-RS-ResourcesAlt-1-r16)
                                                               OPTIONAL,
    type1MP-Type2-feType2-PS-M2R1-r17 SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxNrofCSI-RS-ResourcesExt-r16)) OF INTEGER (0..maxNrofCSI-RS-ResourcesAlt-1-r16)
                                                               OPTIONAL,
    type1MP-eType2R1-feType2-PS-M1-r17 SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxNrofCSI-RS-ResourcesExt-r16)) OF INTEGER (0..maxNrofCSI-RS-ResourcesAlt-1-r16)
                                                               OPTIONAL,
    type1MP-eType2R1-feType2-PS-M2R1-r17 SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxNrofCSI-RS-ResourcesExt-r16)) OF INTEGER (0..maxNrofCSI-RS-ResourcesAlt-1-r16)
                                                               OPTIONAL
}

CodebookComboParameterMultiTRP-PerBC-r17::= SEQUENCE {
    -- R1 23-7-1b	Active CSI-RS resources and ports in the presence of multi-TRP CSI
    --  {Codebook 2, Codebook 3} =(NULL, NULL}
    nCJT-null-null               SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxNrofCSI-RS-ResourcesExt-r16)) OF INTEGER (0..maxNrofCSI-RS-ResourcesAlt-1-r16)
                                                               OPTIONAL,
    nCJT1SP-null-null            SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxNrofCSI-RS-ResourcesExt-r16)) OF INTEGER (0..maxNrofCSI-RS-ResourcesAlt-1-r16)
                                                               OPTIONAL,
    --    {Codebook 2, Codebook 3} = {( {"Rel 16 combinations in FG 16-8"}
    nCJT-Type2-null-r16          SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxNrofCSI-RS-ResourcesExt-r16)) OF INTEGER (0..maxNrofCSI-RS-ResourcesAlt-1-r16)
                                                               OPTIONAL,
    nCJT-Type2PS-null-r16        SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxNrofCSI-RS-ResourcesExt-r16)) OF INTEGER (0..maxNrofCSI-RS-ResourcesAlt-1-r16)
                                                               OPTIONAL,
    nCJT-eType2R1-null-r16       SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxNrofCSI-RS-ResourcesExt-r16)) OF INTEGER (0..maxNrofCSI-RS-ResourcesAlt-1-r16)
                                                               OPTIONAL,
    nCJT-eType2R2-null-r16       SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxNrofCSI-RS-ResourcesExt-r16)) OF INTEGER (0..maxNrofCSI-RS-ResourcesAlt-1-r16)
                                                               OPTIONAL,
    nCJT-eType2R1PS-null-r16     SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxNrofCSI-RS-ResourcesExt-r16)) OF INTEGER (0..maxNrofCSI-RS-ResourcesAlt-1-r16)
                                                               OPTIONAL,
    nCJT-eType2R2PS-null-r16     SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxNrofCSI-RS-ResourcesExt-r16)) OF INTEGER (0..maxNrofCSI-RS-ResourcesAlt-1-r16)
                                                               OPTIONAL,
    nCJT-Type2-Type2PS-r16       SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxNrofCSI-RS-ResourcesExt-r16)) OF INTEGER (0..maxNrofCSI-RS-ResourcesAlt-1-r16)
                                                               OPTIONAL,
    nCJT1SP-Type2-null-r16       SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxNrofCSI-RS-ResourcesExt-r16)) OF INTEGER (0..maxNrofCSI-RS-ResourcesAlt-1-r16)
                                                               OPTIONAL,
    nCJT1SP-Type2PS-null-r16     SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxNrofCSI-RS-ResourcesExt-r16)) OF INTEGER (0..maxNrofCSI-RS-ResourcesAlt-1-r16)
                                                               OPTIONAL,
    nCJT1SP-eType2R1-null-r16    SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxNrofCSI-RS-ResourcesExt-r16)) OF INTEGER (0..maxNrofCSI-RS-ResourcesAlt-1-r16)
                                                               OPTIONAL,
    nCJT1SP-eType2R2-null-r16    SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxNrofCSI-RS-ResourcesExt-r16)) OF INTEGER (0..maxNrofCSI-RS-ResourcesAlt-1-r16)
                                                               OPTIONAL,
    nCJT1SP-eType2R1PS-null-r16  SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxNrofCSI-RS-ResourcesExt-r16)) OF INTEGER (0..maxNrofCSI-RS-ResourcesAlt-1-r16)
                                                               OPTIONAL,
    nCJT1SP-eType2R2PS-null-r16  SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxNrofCSI-RS-ResourcesExt-r16)) OF INTEGER (0..maxNrofCSI-RS-ResourcesAlt-1-r16)
                                                               OPTIONAL,
    nCJT1SP-Type2-Type2PS-r16    SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxNrofCSI-RS-ResourcesExt-r16)) OF INTEGER (0..maxNrofCSI-RS-ResourcesAlt-1-r16)
                                                               OPTIONAL,
    -- {Codebook 2, Codebook 3} = {"New Rel17 combinations in FG 23-9-5"}
    nCJT-feType2PS-null-r17         SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxNrofCSI-RS-ResourcesExt-r16)) OF INTEGER (0..maxNrofCSI-RS-ResourcesAlt-1-r16)
                                                               OPTIONAL,
    nCJT-feType2PS-M2R1-null-r17    SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxNrofCSI-RS-ResourcesExt-r16)) OF INTEGER (0..maxNrofCSI-RS-ResourcesAlt-1-r16)
                                                               OPTIONAL,
    nCJT-feType2PS-M2R2-null-r17    SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxNrofCSI-RS-ResourcesExt-r16)) OF INTEGER (0..maxNrofCSI-RS-ResourcesAlt-1-r16)
                                                               OPTIONAL,
    nCJT-Type2-feType2-PS-M1-r17    SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxNrofCSI-RS-ResourcesExt-r16)) OF INTEGER (0..maxNrofCSI-RS-ResourcesAlt-1-r16)
                                                               OPTIONAL,
    nCJT-Type2-feType2-PS-M2R1-r17  SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxNrofCSI-RS-ResourcesExt-r16)) OF INTEGER (0..maxNrofCSI-RS-ResourcesAlt-1-r16)
                                                               OPTIONAL,
    nCJT-eType2R1-feType2-PS-M1-r17 SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxNrofCSI-RS-ResourcesExt-r16)) OF INTEGER (0..maxNrofCSI-RS-ResourcesAlt-1-r16)
                                                               OPTIONAL,
    nCJT-eType2R1-feType2-PS-M2R1-r17 SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxNrofCSI-RS-ResourcesExt-r16)) OF INTEGER (0..maxNrofCSI-RS-ResourcesAlt-1-r16)
                                                               OPTIONAL,
    nCJT1SP-feType2PS-null-r17      SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxNrofCSI-RS-ResourcesExt-r16)) OF INTEGER (0..maxNrofCSI-RS-ResourcesAlt-1-r16)
                                                               OPTIONAL,
    nCJT1SP-feType2PS-M2R1-null-r17 SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxNrofCSI-RS-ResourcesExt-r16)) OF INTEGER (0..maxNrofCSI-RS-ResourcesAlt-1-r16)
                                                               OPTIONAL,
    nCJT1SP-feType2PS-M2R2-null-r1  SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxNrofCSI-RS-ResourcesExt-r16)) OF INTEGER (0..maxNrofCSI-RS-ResourcesAlt-1-r16)
                                                               OPTIONAL,
    nCJT1SP-Type2-feType2-PS-M1-r17 SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxNrofCSI-RS-ResourcesExt-r16)) OF INTEGER (0..maxNrofCSI-RS-ResourcesAlt-1-r16)
                                                               OPTIONAL,
    nCJT1SP-Type2-feType2-PS-M2R1-r17 SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxNrofCSI-RS-ResourcesExt-r16)) OF INTEGER (0..maxNrofCSI-RS-ResourcesAlt-1-r16)
                                                               OPTIONAL,
    nCJT1SP-eType2R1-feType2-PS-M1-r17 SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxNrofCSI-RS-ResourcesExt-r16)) OF INTEGER (0..maxNrofCSI-RS-ResourcesAlt-1-r16)
                                                               OPTIONAL,
    nCJT1SP-eType2R1-feType2-PS-M2R1-r17 SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxNrofCSI-RS-ResourcesExt-r16)) OF INTEGER (0..maxNrofCSI-RS-ResourcesAlt-1-r16)
                                                               OPTIONAL
}

CodebookParametersetype2DopplerCSI-r18 ::= SEQUENCE {
    -- R1 40-3-2-1: Support of Rel-16-based doppler CSI
    eType2Doppler-r18                          SEQUENCE {
        supportedCSI-RS-ResourceList-r18       SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxNrofCSI-RS-ResourcesExt-r16)) OF INTEGER
                                                              (0..maxNrofCSI-RS-ResourcesAlt-1-r16),
        valueY-P-SP-CSI-RS-r18                 INTEGER (1..3),
        valueY-A-CSI-RS-r18                    INTEGER (1..3),
        scalingfactor-r18                      ENUMERATED {n1, n2, n4}
    },
    -- R1 40-3-2-1a: Support of Rel-16-based doppler measurement with N4>1
    eType2DopplerN4-r18  SEQUENCE {
        supportedCSI-RS-ReportSettingList1-r18 SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxNrofCSI-RS-ResourcesExt-r16)) OF
                                                                        SupportedCSI-RS-ReportSetting-r18,
        supportedCSI-RS-ReportSettingList2-r18 SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxNrofCSI-RS-ResourcesExt-r16)) OF
                                                                        SupportedCSI-RS-ReportSetting-r18
    }                                                                                                            OPTIONAL,
    -- R1 40-3-2-1a-1: DD unit size when A-CSI-RS is configured for CMR N4>1
    ddUnitSize-A-CSI-RS-CMR-r18                ENUMERATED {supported}                                            OPTIONAL,
    -- R1 40-3-2-1b: Maximum number of aperiodic CSI-RS resources that can be configured in the same CSI report setting for
    -- Rel-16-based doppler measurement
    maxNumberAperiodicCSI-RS-Resource-r18      ENUMERATED {n4, n8, n12}                                          OPTIONAL,
    -- R1 40-3-2-2: Support R=2 for Rel-16-based doppler codebook
    eType2DopplerR2-r18  SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxNrofCSI-RS-ResourcesExt-r16)) OF INTEGER (0..maxNrofCSI-RS-ResourcesAlt-1-r16)
                                                                                                                 OPTIONAL,
    -- R1 40-3-2-3: Support X=1 based on first and last slot of WCSI, for Rel-16-based doppler codebook
    eType2DopplerX1-r18                        ENUMERATED {supported}                                            OPTIONAL,
    -- R1 40-3-2-3a: Support X=2 CQI based on 2 slots for Rel-16-based doppler codebook
    eType2DopplerX2-r18                        ENUMERATED {supported}                                            OPTIONAL,
    --R1 40-3-2-7: support of l = (n - nCSI,ref ) for CSI reference slot for Rel-16 based doppler codebook
    eType2DopplerL-N4D1-r18                    ENUMERATED {supported}                                            OPTIONAL,
    -- R1 40-3-2-8: Support of L=6 for Rel-16 based doppler codebook
    eType2DopplerL6-r18                        ENUMERATED {supported}                                            OPTIONAL,
    -- R1 40-3-2-9: Support of rank equals 3 and 4 for Rel-16 based doppler codebook
    eType2DopplerR3R4-r18                      ENUMERATED {supported}                                            OPTIONAL
}

CodebookParametersfetype2DopplerCSI-r18 ::= SEQUENCE {
    -- R1 40-3-2-4: Support of Rel-17-based doppler CSI
    feType2Doppler-r18  SEQUENCE {
        supportedCSI-RS-ResourceList-r18       SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxNrofCSI-RS-ResourcesExt-r16)) OF INTEGER
                                                              (0..maxNrofCSI-RS-ResourcesAlt-1-r16),
        valueY-A-CSI-RS-r18                    INTEGER (1..3),
        scalingfactor-r18                      ENUMERATED {n1, n2, n4}
    },
    -- R1 40-3-2-4b: Maximum number of aperiodic CSI-RS resources that can be configured in the same CSI report setting for
    -- Rel-17-based doppler CSI
    maxNumberAperiodicCSI-RS-Resource-r18      ENUMERATED {n4, n8, n12}                                          OPTIONAL,

    -- R1 40-3-2-5: Support of M=2 and R=1 for Rel-17-based doppler codebook
    feType2DopplerM2R1-r18                     SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxNrofCSI-RS-ResourcesExt-r16)) OF INTEGER
                                                              (0..maxNrofCSI-RS-ResourcesAlt-1-r16)
                                                                                                                 OPTIONAL,
    -- R1 40-3-2-6: Support R=2 for Rel-17-based doppler codebook
    feType2DopplerR2-r18  SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxNrofCSI-RS-ResourcesExt-r16)) OF INTEGER (0..maxNrofCSI-RS-ResourcesAlt-1-r16)
                                                                                                                 OPTIONAL,
    --R1 40-3-2-7a: Support of l = (n - nCSI,ref ) for CSI reference slot for Rel-17 based doppler codebook
    feType2DopplerL-N4D1-r18  ENUMERATED {supported}                                                             OPTIONAL,
    -- R1 40-3-2-10: Support of rank equals 3 and 4 for Rel-17 based doppler codebook
    feType2DopplerR3R4-r18                     ENUMERATED {supported}                                            OPTIONAL
}

CodebookParametersetype2CJT-r18 ::=    SEQUENCE {
    -- R1 40-3-1-1: Basic feature for Rel-16-based CJT type-II codebook
    eType2CJT-r18                          SEQUENCE {
        supportedCSI-RS-ResourceList-r18       SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxNrofCSI-RS-ResourcesExt-r16)) OF INTEGER
                                                              (0..maxNrofCSI-RS-ResourcesAlt-1-r16),
        scalingfactor-r18                      ENUMERATED {n1, n1dot5, n2},
        maxNumberNZP-CSI-RS-MultiTRP-CJT-r18   INTEGER (2..4)
    },
    -- R1 40-3-1-1a: Support of mode 1 for Rel-16-based CJT type-II codebook with FD basis selection integer frequency offset
    eType2CJT-FD-IO-r18                    SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxNrofCSI-RS-ResourcesExt-r16)) OF INTEGER
                                                              (0..maxNrofCSI-RS-ResourcesAlt-1-r16)              OPTIONAL,
    -- R1 40-3-1-2: Support for FD basis selection fractional offset mode for Rel-16-based CJT codebook with mode1
    eType2CJT-FD-FO-r18                    ENUMERATED {supported}                                                OPTIONAL,
    -- R1 40-3-1-3: Support R=2 for Rel-16-based CJT codebook
     eType2CJT-R2-r18                      SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxNrofCSI-RS-ResourcesExt-r16)) OF INTEGER
                                                              (0..maxNrofCSI-RS-ResourcesAlt-1-r16)              OPTIONAL,
    -- R1 40-3-1-4: Support pv={1/2,1/2,1/2,1/2} and beta=1/2 for Rel-16-based CJT codebook
     eType2CJT-PV-Beta-r18                 ENUMERATED {supported}                                                OPTIONAL,
    -- R1 40-3-1-9: Support for 2NN1N2 >32 for Rel-16 based CJT codebook
     eType2CJT-2NN1N2-r18                  ENUMERATED {n64,n96,n128}                                             OPTIONAL,
    -- R1 40-3-1-12: Support of Rank 3 and 4 for Rel-16-based CJT type-II codebook
     eType2CJT-Rank3Rank4-r18              ENUMERATED {supported}                                                OPTIONAL,
    -- R1 40-3-1-14: Support of Support of L=6 for Rel-16-based CJT type-II codebook
     eType2CJT-L6-r18                      ENUMERATED {supported}                                                OPTIONAL,
    -- R1 40-3-1-15: dynamic selection of N<=N_TRP for Rel-16-based CJT type-II codebook
     eType2CJT-NN-r18                      ENUMERATED {supported}                                                OPTIONAL,
    -- R1 40-3-1-17: Support for N_L>1 combinations of number of SD basis across CSI-RS resources for Rel-16-based CJT
    -- type-II codebook
     eType2CJT-NL-SD-r18                   ENUMERATED {n2,n4}                                                    OPTIONAL,
    -- R1 40-3-1-23: Unequal number of spatial basis selection configuration for multi-TRP CJT
    eType2CJT-Unequal-r18                  ENUMERATED {supported}                                                OPTIONAL
}

CodebookParametersfetype2CJT-r18 ::=   SEQUENCE {
    -- R1 40-3-1-5: Basic feature for Rel-17-based CJT type-II codebook
    feType2CJT-r18                         SEQUENCE {
           supportedCSI-RS-ResourceList-r18    SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxNrofCSI-RS-ResourcesExt-r16)) OF INTEGER
                                                              (0..maxNrofCSI-RS-ResourcesAlt-1-r16),
        scalingfactor-r18                      ENUMERATED {n1, n1dot5, n2},
        maxNumberNZP-CSI-RS-MultiTRP-CJT-r18   INTEGER (2..4)
    },
    -- R1 40-3-1-5a: Support of mode 1 for Rel-17-based CJT type-II codebook with FD basis selection integer frequency offset
    feType2CJT-FD-IO-r18                   SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxNrofCSI-RS-ResourcesExt-r16)) OF INTEGER
                                                              (0..maxNrofCSI-RS-ResourcesAlt-1-r16)              OPTIONAL,
    -- R1 40-3-1-6: Support for FD basis selection fractional offset mode for Rel-17-based CJT codebook with mode1
    feType2CJT-FD-FO-r18                   ENUMERATED {supported}                                                OPTIONAL,
     -- R1 40-3-1-7: Support of M=2 and R=1 for Rel-17-based CJT codebook
    feType2CJT-M2R1-r18                    SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxNrofCSI-RS-ResourcesExt-r16)) OF INTEGER
                                                              (0..maxNrofCSI-RS-ResourcesAlt-1-r16)              OPTIONAL,
     -- R1 40-3-1-8: Support of R=2 for Rel-17-based CJT codebook
    feType2CJT-R2-r18                      SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxNrofCSI-RS-ResourcesExt-r16)) OF INTEGER
                                                              (0..maxNrofCSI-RS-ResourcesAlt-1-r16)              OPTIONAL,
     -- R1 40-3-1-9a: Support for 2NN1N2 >32 for Rel-17 based CJT codebook
    feType2CJT-2NN1N2-r18                  ENUMERATED {n64,n96,n128}                                             OPTIONAL,
     -- R1 40-3-1-13: Support of Rank 3 and 4 for Rel-17-based CJT type-II codebook
    feType2CJT-Rank3Rank4-r18              ENUMERATED {supported}                                                OPTIONAL,
     -- R1 40-3-1-16: dynamic selection of N<=N_TRP for Rel-17-based CJT type-II codebook
    feType2CJT-NN-r18                      ENUMERATED {supported}                                                OPTIONAL,
     -- R1 40-3-1-18: Support for N_L>1 combinations of number of SD basis across CSI-RS resources for Rel-17-based CJT
    -- type-II codebook
    feType2CJT-NL-r18                      ENUMERATED {n2,n4}                                                    OPTIONAL,
    -- R1 40-3-1-23a: Unequal number of port selection configuration for multi-TRP CJT
    feType2CJT-Unequal-r18                 ENUMERATED {supported}                                                OPTIONAL
}

CodebookComboParametersCJT-r18::= SEQUENCE {
    -- R1 40-3-1-11: Active CSI-RS resources and ports for mixed codebook types including Type-II-CJT in any slot
    --  {Codebook 1} = Type I SP
    cjt-Type1SP-eType2R1-null      SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxNrofCSI-RS-ResourcesExt-r16)) OF INTEGER (0..maxNrofCSI-RS-ResourcesAlt-1-r16)
                                                                                                                 OPTIONAL,
    cjt-Type1SP-eType2R2-null      SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxNrofCSI-RS-ResourcesExt-r16)) OF INTEGER (0..maxNrofCSI-RS-ResourcesAlt-1-r16)
                                                                                                                 OPTIONAL,
    cjt-Type1SP-feType2R1M1-null   SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxNrofCSI-RS-ResourcesExt-r16)) OF INTEGER (0..maxNrofCSI-RS-ResourcesAlt-1-r16)
                                                                                                                 OPTIONAL,
    cjt-Type1SP-feType2R1M2-null   SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxNrofCSI-RS-ResourcesExt-r16)) OF INTEGER (0..maxNrofCSI-RS-ResourcesAlt-1-r16)
                                                                                                                 OPTIONAL,
    cjt-Type1SP-feType2R2M2-null   SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxNrofCSI-RS-ResourcesExt-r16)) OF INTEGER (0..maxNrofCSI-RS-ResourcesAlt-1-r16)
                                                                                                                 OPTIONAL,
    --  {Codebook 1} = Type I MP
    cjt-Type1MP-eType2R1-null      SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxNrofCSI-RS-ResourcesExt-r16)) OF INTEGER (0..maxNrofCSI-RS-ResourcesAlt-1-r16)
                                                                                                                 OPTIONAL,
    cjt-Type1MP-eType2R2-null      SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxNrofCSI-RS-ResourcesExt-r16)) OF INTEGER (0..maxNrofCSI-RS-ResourcesAlt-1-r16)
                                                                                                                 OPTIONAL,
    cjt-Type1MP-feType2R1M1-null   SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxNrofCSI-RS-ResourcesExt-r16)) OF INTEGER (0..maxNrofCSI-RS-ResourcesAlt-1-r16)
                                                                                                                 OPTIONAL,
    cjt-Type1MP-feType2R1M2-null   SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxNrofCSI-RS-ResourcesExt-r16)) OF INTEGER (0..maxNrofCSI-RS-ResourcesAlt-1-r16)
                                                                                                                 OPTIONAL,
    cjt-Type1MP-feType2R2M2-null   SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxNrofCSI-RS-ResourcesExt-r16)) OF INTEGER (0..maxNrofCSI-RS-ResourcesAlt-1-r16)
                                                                                                                 OPTIONAL
}

CodebookParametersHARQ-ACK-PUSCH-r18::= SEQUENCE {
    -- R1 55-4a: Multiplexing Type-1 HARQ-ACK codebook in a PUSCH for PDSCH scheduled after UL grant
    multiplexingType1-r18                   ENUMERATED {supported}                                               OPTIONAL,
    -- R1 55-4b: Multiplexing Type-2 HARQ-ACK codebook in a PUSCH for PDSCH scheduled after UL grant
    multiplexingType2-r18                   ENUMERATED {supported}                                               OPTIONAL,
    -- R1 55-4c: Multiplexing Type-3 HARQ-ACK codebook in a PUSCH for PDSCH scheduled after UL grant
    multiplexingType3-r18                   ENUMERATED {supported}                                               OPTIONAL,
    -- R1 55-4d: Determining a different PUCCH resource to transmit HARQ-ACK for PDSCH scheduled after UL grant
    pucch-DiffResource-PDSCH-r18            ENUMERATED {supported}                                               OPTIONAL,
    -- R1 55-4e: Determining different codebook size to transmit HARQ-ACK for PDSCH scheduled after UL grant
    diffCB-Size-PDSCH-r18                   ENUMERATED {supported}                                               OPTIONAL
}

CodebookVariantsList-r16 ::= SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxNrofCSI-RS-ResourcesAlt-r16)) OF SupportedCSI-RS-Resource

SupportedCSI-RS-Resource ::=     SEQUENCE {
    maxNumberTxPortsPerResource      ENUMERATED {p2, p4, p8, p12, p16, p24, p32},
    maxNumberResourcesPerBand        INTEGER (1..64),
    totalNumberTxPortsPerBand        INTEGER (2..256)
}

SupportedCSI-RS-ReportSetting-r18 ::= SEQUENCE {
     maxN4-r18                            ENUMERATED {n1, n2, n4, n8},
     maxNumberTxPortsPerResource-r18      ENUMERATED {p2, p4, p8, p12, p16, p24, p32},
     maxNumberResourcesPerBand-r18        INTEGER (1..64),
     totalNumberTxPortsPerBand-r18        INTEGER (2..256)
}

-- TAG-CODEBOOKPARAMETERS-STOP
-- ASN1STOP



–	DL-PRS-MeasurementWithRxFH-RRC-Connected
The IE DL-PRS-MeasurementWithRxFH-RRC-Connected is used to convey the capabilities supported by the UE for PRS measurement with Rx frequency hopping within a measurement gap and measurement reporting in RRC_CONNECTED for RedCap UEs.
DL-PRS-MeasurementWithRxFH-RRC-Connected information element
-- ASN1START
-- TAG-DL-PRS-MEASUREMENTWITHRXFH-RRC-CONNECTED-START

DL-PRS-MeasurementWithRxFH-RRC-Connected-r18 ::= SEQUENCE {
    maximumPRS-BandwidthAcrossAllHopsFR1-r18         ENUMERATED {mhz40, mhz50, mhz80, mhz100}            OPTIONAL,
    maximumPRS-BandwidthAcrossAllHopsFR2-r18         ENUMERATED {mhz100, mhz200, mhz400}                 OPTIONAL,
    maximumFH-Hops-r18                               ENUMERATED {n2, n3, n4, n5, n6}                     OPTIONAL,
    processingDuration-r18                           SEQUENCE {
        processingPRS-SymbolsDurationN3-r18              ENUMERATED {msDot125, msDot25, msDot5, ms1, ms2, ms4, ms6, ms8, ms12,
                                                              ms16, ms20, ms25, ms30, ms32, ms35, ms40, ms45, ms50},
        processingDurationT3-r18                         ENUMERATED {ms8, ms16, ms20, ms30, ms40, ms80, ms160, ms320, ms640, ms1280}
    }                                                                                                    OPTIONAL,
    rf-RxRetuneTimeFR1-r18                           ENUMERATED {n70, n140, n210}                        OPTIONAL,
    rf-RxRetuneTimeFR2-r18                           ENUMERATED {n35, n70, n140}                         OPTIONAL,
    numOfOverlappingPRB-r18                          ENUMERATED {n0, n1, n2, n4}                         OPTIONAL,
    ...
}

-- TAG-DL-PRS-MEASUREMENTWITHRXFH-RRC-CONNECTED-STOP
-- ASN1STOP

–	ERedCapParameters
The IE ERedCapParameters is used to indicate the UE capabilities supported by eRedCap UEs.
ERedCapParameters information element
-- ASN1START
-- TAG-EREDCAPPARAMETERS-START

ERedCapParameters-r18::=                   SEQUENCE {
    -- R1 48-1: eRedCap UE with reduced peak data rate and reduced baseband bandwidth in FR1
    supportOfERedCap-r18                       ENUMERATED {supported},
    -- R1 48-2: eRedCap UE with reduced peak data rate without reduced baseband bandwidth in FR1
    eRedCapNotReducedBB-BW-r18                 ENUMERATED {supported}                            OPTIONAL,
    eRedCapIgnoreCapabilityFiltering-r18       ENUMERATED {supported}                            OPTIONAL
}

-- TAG-EREDCAPPARAMETERS-STOP
-- ASN1STOP

–	FeatureSetCombination
The IE FeatureSetCombination is a two-dimensional matrix of FeatureSet entries.
Each FeatureSetsPerBand contains a list of feature sets applicable to the carrier(s) of one band entry of the associated band combination. Across the associated bands, the UE shall support the combination of FeatureSets at the same position in the FeatureSetsPerBand. All FeatureSetsPerBand in one FeatureSetCombination must have the same number of entries.
The number of FeatureSetsPerBand in the FeatureSetCombination must be equal to the number of band entries in an associated band combination. The first FeatureSetPerBand applies to the first band entry of the band combination, and so on.
Each FeatureSet contains either a pair of NR or E-UTRA feature set IDs for UL and DL.
In case of NR, the actual feature sets for UL and DL are defined in the FeatureSets IE and referred to from here by their ID, i.e., their position in the featureSetsUplink / featureSetsDownlink list in the FeatureSet IE.
In case of E-UTRA, the feature sets referred to from this list are defined in TS 36.331 [10] and conveyed as part of the UE-EUTRA-Capability container.
The FeatureSetUplink and FeatureSetDownlink referred to from the FeatureSet comprise, among other information, a set of FeatureSetUplinkPerCC-Ids and FeatureSetDownlinkPerCC-Ids. The number of these per-CC IDs determines the number of carriers that the UE is able to aggregate contiguously in frequency domain in the corresponding band. The number of carriers supported by the UE is also restricted by the bandwidth class indicated in the associated BandCombination, if present.
In feature set combinations the UE shall exclude entries with same or lower capabilities, since the network may anyway assume that the UE supports those.
NOTE 1:	The UE may advertise fallback band-combinations in which it supports additional functionality explicitly in two ways: Either by setting FeatureSet IDs to zero (inter-band and intra-band non-contiguous fallback) and by reducing the number of FeatureSet-PerCC Ids in a Feature Set (intra-band contiguous fallback). Or by separate BandCombination entries with associated FeatureSetCombinations.
NOTE 2:	The UE may advertise a FeatureSetCombination containing only fallback band combinations. That means, in a FeatureSetCombination, each group of FeatureSets across the bands may contain at least one pair of FeatureSetUplinkId and FeatureSetDownlinkId which is set to 0/0.
NOTE 3:	The Network configures serving cell(s) and BWP(s) configuration to comply with capabilities derived from the combination of FeatureSets at the same position in the FeatureSetsPerBand, regardless of activated/deactivated serving cell(s) and BWP(s).
FeatureSetCombination information element
-- ASN1START
-- TAG-FEATURESETCOMBINATION-START

FeatureSetCombination ::=       SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxSimultaneousBands)) OF FeatureSetsPerBand

FeatureSetsPerBand ::=          SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxFeatureSetsPerBand)) OF FeatureSet

FeatureSet ::=                  CHOICE {
    eutra                           SEQUENCE {
        downlinkSetEUTRA                FeatureSetEUTRA-DownlinkId,
        uplinkSetEUTRA                  FeatureSetEUTRA-UplinkId
    },
    nr                              SEQUENCE {
        downlinkSetNR                   FeatureSetDownlinkId,
        uplinkSetNR                     FeatureSetUplinkId
    }
}

-- TAG-FEATURESETCOMBINATION-STOP
-- ASN1STOP

–	FeatureSetCombinationId
The IE FeatureSetCombinationId identifies a FeatureSetCombination. The FeatureSetCombinationId of a FeatureSetCombination is the position of the FeatureSetCombination in the featureSetCombinations list (in UE-NR-Capability or UE-MRDC-Capability). The FeatureSetCombinationId = 0 refers to the first entry in the featureSetCombinations list (in UE-NR-Capability or UE-MRDC-Capability).
NOTE:	The FeatureSetCombinationId = 1024 is not used due to the maximum entry number of featureSetCombinations.
FeatureSetCombinationId information element
-- ASN1START
-- TAG-FEATURESETCOMBINATIONID-START

FeatureSetCombinationId ::=         INTEGER (0.. maxFeatureSetCombinations)

-- TAG-FEATURESETCOMBINATIONID-STOP
-- ASN1STOP

–	FeatureSetDownlink
The IE FeatureSetDownlink indicates a set of features that the UE supports on the carriers corresponding to one band entry in a band combination.
FeatureSetDownlink information element
-- ASN1START
-- TAG-FEATURESETDOWNLINK-START

FeatureSetDownlink ::=                  SEQUENCE {
    featureSetListPerDownlinkCC             SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxNrofServingCells)) OF FeatureSetDownlinkPerCC-Id,

    intraBandFreqSeparationDL               FreqSeparationClass                                                     OPTIONAL,
    scalingFactor                           ENUMERATED {f0p4, f0p75, f0p8}                                          OPTIONAL,
    dummy8                                  ENUMERATED {supported}                                                  OPTIONAL,
    scellWithoutSSB                         ENUMERATED {supported}                                                  OPTIONAL,
    csi-RS-MeasSCellWithoutSSB              ENUMERATED {supported}                                                  OPTIONAL,
    dummy1                                  ENUMERATED {supported}                                                  OPTIONAL,
    type1-3-CSS                             ENUMERATED {supported}                                                  OPTIONAL,
    pdcch-MonitoringAnyOccasions            ENUMERATED {withoutDCI-Gap, withDCI-Gap}                                OPTIONAL,
    dummy2                                  ENUMERATED {supported}                                                  OPTIONAL,
    ue-SpecificUL-DL-Assignment             ENUMERATED {supported}                                                  OPTIONAL,
    searchSpaceSharingCA-DL                 ENUMERATED {supported}                                                  OPTIONAL,
    timeDurationForQCL                      SEQUENCE {
        scs-60kHz                           ENUMERATED {s7, s14, s28}                                               OPTIONAL,
        scs-120kHz                          ENUMERATED {s14, s28}                                                   OPTIONAL
    }                                                                                                           OPTIONAL,
    pdsch-ProcessingType1-DifferentTB-PerSlot SEQUENCE {
        scs-15kHz                               ENUMERATED {upto2, upto4, upto7}                                    OPTIONAL,
        scs-30kHz                               ENUMERATED {upto2, upto4, upto7}                                    OPTIONAL,
        scs-60kHz                               ENUMERATED {upto2, upto4, upto7}                                    OPTIONAL,
        scs-120kHz                              ENUMERATED {upto2, upto4, upto7}                                    OPTIONAL
    }                                                                                                           OPTIONAL,
    dummy3                                  DummyA                                                                  OPTIONAL,
    dummy4                                  SEQUENCE (SIZE (1.. maxNrofCodebooks)) OF DummyB                        OPTIONAL,
    dummy5                                  SEQUENCE (SIZE (1.. maxNrofCodebooks)) OF DummyC                        OPTIONAL,
    dummy6                                  SEQUENCE (SIZE (1.. maxNrofCodebooks)) OF DummyD                        OPTIONAL,
    dummy7                                  SEQUENCE (SIZE (1.. maxNrofCodebooks)) OF DummyE                        OPTIONAL
}

FeatureSetDownlink-v1540 ::= SEQUENCE {
    oneFL-DMRS-TwoAdditionalDMRS-DL         ENUMERATED {supported}                       OPTIONAL,
    additionalDMRS-DL-Alt                   ENUMERATED {supported}                       OPTIONAL,
    twoFL-DMRS-TwoAdditionalDMRS-DL         ENUMERATED {supported}                       OPTIONAL,
    oneFL-DMRS-ThreeAdditionalDMRS-DL       ENUMERATED {supported}                       OPTIONAL,
    pdcch-MonitoringAnyOccasionsWithSpanGap SEQUENCE {
        scs-15kHz                               ENUMERATED {set1, set2, set3}                OPTIONAL,
        scs-30kHz                               ENUMERATED {set1, set2, set3}                OPTIONAL,
        scs-60kHz                               ENUMERATED {set1, set2, set3}                OPTIONAL,
        scs-120kHz                              ENUMERATED {set1, set2, set3}                OPTIONAL
    }                                                                                    OPTIONAL,
    pdsch-SeparationWithGap                 ENUMERATED {supported}                       OPTIONAL,
    pdsch-ProcessingType2                   SEQUENCE {
        scs-15kHz                               ProcessingParameters                         OPTIONAL,
        scs-30kHz                               ProcessingParameters                         OPTIONAL,
        scs-60kHz                               ProcessingParameters                         OPTIONAL
    } OPTIONAL,
    pdsch-ProcessingType2-Limited           SEQUENCE {
        differentTB-PerSlot-SCS-30kHz           ENUMERATED {upto1, upto2, upto4, upto7}
    } OPTIONAL,
    dl-MCS-TableAlt-DynamicIndication       ENUMERATED {supported}                       OPTIONAL
}

FeatureSetDownlink-v15a0 ::= SEQUENCE {
    supportedSRS-Resources              SRS-Resources                                    OPTIONAL
}

FeatureSetDownlink-v15t0 ::= SEQUENCE {
    zeroSlotOffsetAperiodicSRS          ENUMERATED {supported}                           OPTIONAL
}

FeatureSetDownlink-v1610 ::=   SEQUENCE {
    -- R1 22-4e/4f/4g/4h: CBG based reception for DL with unicast PDSCH(s) per slot per CC with UE processing time Capability 1
    cbgPDSCH-ProcessingType1-DifferentTB-PerSlot-r16   SEQUENCE {
        scs-15kHz-r16        ENUMERATED {one, upto2, upto4, upto7} OPTIONAL,
        scs-30kHz-r16        ENUMERATED {one, upto2, upto4, upto7} OPTIONAL,
        scs-60kHz-r16        ENUMERATED {one, upto2, upto4, upto7} OPTIONAL,
        scs-120kHz-r16       ENUMERATED {one, upto2, upto4, upto7} OPTIONAL
    } OPTIONAL,

    -- R1 22-3e/3f/3g/3h: CBG based reception for DL with unicast PDSCH(s) per slot per CC with UE processing time Capability 2
    cbgPDSCH-ProcessingType2-DifferentTB-PerSlot-r16   SEQUENCE {
        scs-15kHz-r16        ENUMERATED {one, upto2, upto4, upto7} OPTIONAL,
        scs-30kHz-r16        ENUMERATED {one, upto2, upto4, upto7} OPTIONAL,
        scs-60kHz-r16        ENUMERATED {one, upto2, upto4, upto7} OPTIONAL,
        scs-120kHz-r16       ENUMERATED {one, upto2, upto4, upto7} OPTIONAL
    } OPTIONAL,
    intraFreqDAPS-r16                  SEQUENCE {
        intraFreqDiffSCS-DAPS-r16          ENUMERATED {supported}            OPTIONAL,
        intraFreqAsyncDAPS-r16             ENUMERATED {supported}            OPTIONAL
    }                                                                        OPTIONAL,
    intraBandFreqSeparationDL-v1620    FreqSeparationClassDL-v1620           OPTIONAL,
    intraBandFreqSeparationDL-Only-r16 FreqSeparationClassDL-Only-r16        OPTIONAL,

    -- R1 11-2: Rel-16 PDCCH monitoring capability
    pdcch-Monitoring-r16               SEQUENCE {
        pdsch-ProcessingType1-r16          SEQUENCE {
            scs-15kHz-r16                      PDCCH-MonitoringOccasions-r16 OPTIONAL,
            scs-30kHz-r16                      PDCCH-MonitoringOccasions-r16 OPTIONAL
        }                                                                    OPTIONAL,
        pdsch-ProcessingType2-r16      SEQUENCE {
            scs-15kHz-r16                  PDCCH-MonitoringOccasions-r16     OPTIONAL,
            scs-30kHz-r16                  PDCCH-MonitoringOccasions-r16     OPTIONAL
        }                                                                    OPTIONAL
    }                                                                        OPTIONAL,

    -- R1 11-2b: Mix of Rel. 16 PDCCH monitoring capability and Rel. 15 PDCCH monitoring capability on different carriers
    pdcch-MonitoringMixed-r16          ENUMERATED {supported}                OPTIONAL,

    -- R1 18-5c: Processing up to X unicast DCI scheduling for DL per scheduled CC
    crossCarrierSchedulingProcessing-DiffSCS-r16  SEQUENCE {
        scs-15kHz-120kHz-r16               ENUMERATED {n1,n2,n4}             OPTIONAL,
        scs-15kHz-60kHz-r16                ENUMERATED {n1,n2,n4}             OPTIONAL,
        scs-30kHz-120kHz-r16               ENUMERATED {n1,n2,n4}             OPTIONAL,
        scs-15kHz-30kHz-r16                ENUMERATED {n2}                   OPTIONAL,
        scs-30kHz-60kHz-r16                ENUMERATED {n2}                   OPTIONAL,
        scs-60kHz-120kHz-r16               ENUMERATED {n2}                   OPTIONAL
    }                                                                        OPTIONAL,

    -- R1 16-2b-1: Support of single-DCI based SDM scheme
    singleDCI-SDM-scheme-r16           ENUMERATED {supported}                OPTIONAL
}

FeatureSetDownlink-v16k0 ::= SEQUENCE {
    -- R1 22-8: For SRS for CB PUSCH and antenna switching on FR1 with symbol level offset for aperiodic SRS transmission
    offsetSRS-CB-PUSCH-Ant-Switch-fr1-r16                       ENUMERATED {supported}                   OPTIONAL,
    -- R1 22-8a: PDCCH monitoring on any span of up to 3 consecutive OFDM symbols of a slot and constrained timeline for SRS for CB
    -- PUSCH and antenna switching on FR1
    offsetSRS-CB-PUSCH-PDCCH-MonitorSingleOcc-fr1-r16           ENUMERATED {supported}                   OPTIONAL,
    -- R1 22-8b: For type 1 CSS with dedicated RRC configuration, type 3 CSS, and UE-SS, monitoring occasion can be any OFDM symbol(s)
    -- of a slot for Case 2 and constrained timeline for SRS for CB PUSCH and antenna switching on FR1
    offsetSRS-CB-PUSCH-PDCCH-MonitorAnyOccWithoutGap-fr1-r16    ENUMERATED {supported}                   OPTIONAL,
    -- R1 22-8c: For type 1 CSS with dedicated RRC configuration, type 3 CSS, and UE-SS, monitoring occasion can be any OFDM symbol(s)
    -- of a slot for Case 2 with a DCI gap and constrained timeline for SRS for CB PUSCH and antenna switching on FR1
    offsetSRS-CB-PUSCH-PDCCH-MonitorAnyOccWithGap-fr1-r16       ENUMERATED {supported}                   OPTIONAL,
    -- R1 22-8d: All PDCCH monitoring occasion can be any OFDM symbol(s) of a slot for Case 2 with a span gap and constrained timeline
    -- for SRS for CB PUSCH and antenna switching on FR1
    offsetSRS-CB-PUSCH-PDCCH-MonitorAnyOccWithSpanGap-fr1-r16 SEQUENCE {
        scs-15kHz-r16                                 ENUMERATED {set1, set2, set3}                      OPTIONAL,
        scs-30kHz-r16                                 ENUMERATED {set1, set2, set3}                      OPTIONAL,
        scs-60kHz-r16                                 ENUMERATED {set1, set2, set3}                      OPTIONAL
}                                                                                                        OPTIONAL
}

FeatureSetDownlink-v1700 ::= SEQUENCE {
    -- R1 36-2: Scaling factor to be applied to 1024QAM for FR1
    scalingFactor-1024QAM-FR1-r17 ENUMERATED {f0p4, f0p75, f0p8}             OPTIONAL,
    -- R1 24 feature for existing UE cap to include new SCS
    timeDurationForQCL-v1710     SEQUENCE {
        scs-480kHz                   ENUMERATED {s56, s112}                  OPTIONAL,
        scs-960kHz                   ENUMERATED {s112, s224}                 OPTIONAL
    }                                                                        OPTIONAL,
    -- R1 23-6-1	SFN scheme A (scheme 1) for PDSCH and PDCCH
    sfn-SchemeA-r17                  ENUMERATED {supported}                  OPTIONAL,
    -- R1 23-6-1-1	SFN scheme A (scheme 1) for PDCCH only
    sfn-SchemeA-PDCCH-only-r17       ENUMERATED {supported}                  OPTIONAL,
    -- R1 23-6-1a	Dynamic switching - scheme A
    sfn-SchemeA-DynamicSwitching-r17 ENUMERATED {supported}                  OPTIONAL,
    -- R1 23-6-1b	SFN scheme A (scheme 1) for PDSCH only
    sfn-SchemeA-PDSCH-only-r17       ENUMERATED {supported}                  OPTIONAL,
    -- R1 23-6-2	SFN scheme B (TRP based pre-compensation) for PDSCH and PDCCH
    sfn-SchemeB-r17                  ENUMERATED {supported}                  OPTIONAL,
    -- R1 23-6-2a	Dynamic switching - scheme B
    sfn-SchemeB-DynamicSwitching-r17 ENUMERATED {supported}                  OPTIONAL,
    -- R1 23-6-2b	SFN scheme B (TRP based pre-compensation) for PDSCH only
    sfn-SchemeB-PDSCH-only-r17       ENUMERATED {supported}                  OPTIONAL,
    -- R1 23-2-1d	PDCCH repetition for Case 2 PDCCH monitoring with a span gap
    mTRP-PDCCH-Case2-1SpanGap-r17    SEQUENCE {
        scs-15kHz-r17                    PDCCH-RepetitionParameters-r17      OPTIONAL,
        scs-30kHz-r17                    PDCCH-RepetitionParameters-r17      OPTIONAL,
        scs-60kHz-r17                    PDCCH-RepetitionParameters-r17      OPTIONAL,
        scs-120kHz-r17                   PDCCH-RepetitionParameters-r17      OPTIONAL
    }                                                                        OPTIONAL,
    -- R1 23-2-1e	PDCCH repetition for Rel-16 PDCCH monitoring
    mTRP-PDCCH-legacyMonitoring-r17  SEQUENCE {
        scs-15kHz-r17                    PDCCH-RepetitionParameters-r17      OPTIONAL,
        scs-30kHz-r17                    PDCCH-RepetitionParameters-r17      OPTIONAL
    }                                                                        OPTIONAL,
    -- R1  23-2-4	Simultaneous configuration of PDCCH repetition and multi-DCI based multi-TRP
    mTRP-PDCCH-multiDCI-multiTRP-r17 ENUMERATED {supported}                  OPTIONAL,
    -- R1 33-2:	Dynamic scheduling for multicast for PCell
    dynamicMulticastPCell-r17        ENUMERATED {supported}                  OPTIONAL,
    -- R1 23-2-1	PDCCH repetition
    mTRP-PDCCH-Repetition-r17        SEQUENCE {
        numBD-twoPDCCH-r17               INTEGER (2..3),
        maxNumOverlaps-r17               ENUMERATED {n1,n2,n3,n5,n10,n20,n40}
    }                                                                        OPTIONAL
}

FeatureSetDownlink-v1720 ::=                SEQUENCE {
    -- R1 25-19: RTT-based Propagation delay compensation based on CSI-RS for tracking and SRS
    rtt-BasedPDC-CSI-RS-ForTracking-r17         ENUMERATED {supported}                                                   OPTIONAL,
    -- R1 25-19a: RTT-based Propagation delay compensation based on DL PRS for RTT-based PDC and SRS
    rtt-BasedPDC-PRS-r17                        SEQUENCE {
        maxNumberPRS-Resource-r17                   ENUMERATED {n1, n2, n4, n8, n16, n32, n64},
        maxNumberPRS-ResourceProcessedPerSlot-r17   SEQUENCE {
            scs-15kHz-r17                               ENUMERATED {n1, n2, n4, n6, n8, n12, n16, n24, n32, n48, n64}    OPTIONAL,
            scs-30kHz-r17                               ENUMERATED {n1, n2, n4, n6, n8, n12, n16, n24, n32, n48, n64}    OPTIONAL,
            scs-60kHz-r17                               ENUMERATED {n1, n2, n4, n6, n8, n12, n16, n24, n32, n48, n64}    OPTIONAL,
            scs-120kHz-r17                              ENUMERATED {n1, n2, n4, n6, n8, n12, n16, n24, n32, n48, n64}    OPTIONAL
        }
    }                                                                                                                    OPTIONAL,
    -- R1 33-5-1: SPS group-common PDSCH for multicast on PCell
    sps-Multicast-r17                           ENUMERATED {supported}                                                   OPTIONAL
}

FeatureSetDownlink-v1730 ::=                SEQUENCE {
    -- R1 25-19b: Support of PRS as spatial relation RS for SRS
    prs-AsSpatialRelationRS-For-SRS-r17         ENUMERATED {supported}                                                   OPTIONAL
}

FeatureSetDownlink-v17d0 ::=                SEQUENCE {
    -- R1 23-8-4	Maximum 2 SP and 1 periodic SRS sets for antenna switching
    srs-AntennaSwitching2SP-1Periodic-r17       ENUMERATED {supported}                             OPTIONAL,
    -- R1 23-8-9	Extension of aperiodic SRS configuration for 1T4R, 1T2R and 2T4R
    srs-ExtensionAperiodicSRS-r17               ENUMERATED {supported}                             OPTIONAL,
    -- R1 23-8-10	1 aperiodic SRS resource set for 1T4R
    srs-OneAP-SRS-r17                           ENUMERATED {supported}                             OPTIONAL
}

FeatureSetDownlink-v1800 ::=                    SEQUENCE {
    -- R1 40-1-14a: Dynamic switching - scheme A
    dynamicSwitchingA-r18                           ENUMERATED {supported}                                                   OPTIONAL,
    -- R1 40-1-14b: Dynamic switching - scheme B
    dynamicSwitchingB-r18                           ENUMERATED {supported}                                                   OPTIONAL,
    -- R1 40-3-2-11: Aperiodic CSI report timing relaxation for doppler codebook based on Type-II codebook
    aperiodicCSI-TimeRelaxation-r18                 SEQUENCE {
        valueW-r18                                           SEQUENCE{
            scs-15kHz                               ENUMERATED {value1, value2}                                              OPTIONAL,
            scs-30kHz                               ENUMERATED {value1, value2}                                              OPTIONAL,
            scs-60kHz                               ENUMERATED {value1, value2}                                              OPTIONAL,
            scs-120kHz                              ENUMERATED {value1, value2}                                              OPTIONAL
        },
        timeRelaxation-r18                          ENUMERATED {cap1, cap2}
    }                                                                                                                        OPTIONAL,
    -- R1 40-4-1: Basic feature of Rel.18 enhanced DMRS ports for PDSCH for scheduling of mapping type A
    pdsch-TypeA-DMRS-r18                            ENUMERATED {supported}                                                   OPTIONAL,
    -- R1 40-4-1a: Basic feature of Rel.18 enhanced DMRS ports for PDSCH for scheduling of mapping type B
    pdsch-TypeB-DMRS-r18                            ENUMERATED {supported}                                                   OPTIONAL,
    -- R1 40-4-1b: 1 symbol FL DMRS and 2 additional DMRS symbols for more than one port for Rel.18 enhanced DMRS ports for PDSCH
    pdsch-1SymbolFL-DMRS-Addition2Symbol-r18        ENUMERATED {supported}                                                   OPTIONAL,
    -- R1 40-4-1c: Alternative additional DMRS position for co-existence with LTE CRS for Rel.18 enhanced DMRS ports for PDSCH
    pdsch-AlternativeDMRS-Coexistence-r18           ENUMERATED {supported}                                                   OPTIONAL,
    -- R1 40-4-1d: 2 symbols FL-DMRS for Rel.18 enhanced DMRS ports for PDSCH
    pdsch-2SymbolFL-DMRS-r18                        ENUMERATED {supported}                                                   OPTIONAL,
    -- R1 40-4-1e: 2-symbol FL DMRS + one additional 2-symbols DMRS for Rel.18 enhanced DMRS ports for PDSCH
    pdsch-2SymbolFL-DMRS-Addition2Symbol-r18        ENUMERATED {supported}                                                   OPTIONAL,
    -- R1 40-4-1f: 1 symbol FL DMRS and 3 additional DMRS symbols for Rel.18 enhanced DMRS ports for PDSCH
    pdsch-1SymbolFL-DMRS-Addition3Symbol-r18        ENUMERATED {supported}                                                   OPTIONAL,
    -- R1 40-4-1g: DMRS type for Rel.18 enhanced DMRS ports for PDSCH
    pdsch-DMRS-Type-r18                             ENUMERATED {etype1, etype1And2}                                          OPTIONAL,
    -- R1 40-4-1h: 1 port DL PTRS for Rel.18 enhanced DMRS ports for PDSCH with rank 1-8
    pdsch-1PortDL-PTRS-r18                          ENUMERATED {supported}                                                   OPTIONAL,
    -- R1 40-4-1i: 2 port DL PTRS for Rel.18 enhanced DMRS ports for PDSCH with rank 1-8
    pdsch-2PortDL-PTRS-r18                          ENUMERATED {supported}                                                   OPTIONAL,
    -- R1 40-4-1j: Support 1 symbol FL DMRS and 2 additional DMRS symbols for one port for scheduling of mapping type A
    mappingTypeA-1SymbolFL-DMRS-Addition2Symbol-r18 ENUMERATED {supported}                                                   OPTIONAL,
    -- R1 40-4-2: Capability on the maximum number of configured DMRS types for PDSCH across all DL DCI formats per cell
    maxNumberDMRS-AcrossAllDL-DCI-r18               INTEGER (2..4)                                                           OPTIONAL,
    -- R1 40-4-4: Reception of PDSCH without the scheduling restriction for Rel.18 eType1 DMRS ports
    pdsch-ReceptionWithoutSchedulingRestriction-r18 ENUMERATED {supported}                                                   OPTIONAL,
    -- R1 40-4-4a: Reception of PDSCH without the scheduling restriction for Rel.18 eType1 DMRS ports for PDSCH with fdmSchemeA
    pdsch-ReceptionSchemeA-r18                      ENUMERATED {supported}                                                   OPTIONAL,
    -- R1 40-4-4b: Reception of PDSCH without the scheduling restriction for Rel.18 eType1 DMRS ports for PDSCH with fdmSchemeB
    pdsch-ReceptionSchemeB-r18                      ENUMERATED {supported}                                                   OPTIONAL,

    -- R1 40-4-5: Rel-18 DL DMRS with single DCI based M-TRP
    dmrs-MultiTRP-SingleDCI-r18                     ENUMERATED {supported}                                                   OPTIONAL,
    -- R1 40-4-5a: Additional row(s) for antenna ports (0,2,3) for Rel.18 DL DMRS ports for single-DCI based M-TRP
    dmrs-MultiTRP-AdditionRows-r18                  ENUMERATED {supported}                                                   OPTIONAL,
    -- R1 40-4-7: Rel-18 DL DMRS with M-DCI based M-TRP
    dmrs-MultiTRP-MultiDCI-r18                      ENUMERATED {supported}                                                   OPTIONAL,
    -- R1 40-4-12: Support of Rel-18 DMRS and PDSCH processing capability 2 simultaneously
    simulDMRS-PDSCH-r18                             SEQUENCE {
        scs-15kHz-r18                                   INTEGER (0..4)                                                       OPTIONAL,
        scs-30kHz-r18                                   INTEGER (0..5)                                                       OPTIONAL,
        scs-60kHz-r18                                   INTEGER (0..7)                                                       OPTIONAL
    }                                                                                                                        OPTIONAL,

    -- R1 53-1: Support RLM/BM/BFD and gapless L3 intra-frequency measurements based on CD-SSB outside active BWP without interruptions
    bwpOperationMeasWithoutInterrupt-r18            ENUMERATED {supported}                                                   OPTIONAL,

    -- R1 55-6: (2, 2) span-based PDCCH monitoring with additional restriction(s)
    pdcch-MonitoringSpan2-2-r18                     SEQUENCE{
        pdsch-ProcessingType1-r18                       SEQUENCE{
            scs-15kHz-r18                                   ENUMERATED {supported}                                           OPTIONAL,
            scs-30kHz-r18                                   ENUMERATED {supported}                                           OPTIONAL
        },
        pdsch-ProcessingType2-r18                       SEQUENCE{
            scs-15kHz-r18                                   ENUMERATED {supported}                                           OPTIONAL,
            scs-30kHz-r18                                   ENUMERATED {supported}                                           OPTIONAL
        }
    }                                                                                                                        OPTIONAL,
    -- R1 55-6b: Mix of Rel-16 PDCCH monitoring capability and Rel. 15 PDCCH monitoring capability on different carriers
    pdcch-MonitoringMixed-r18                       ENUMERATED {supported}                                                    OPTIONAL,
    -- R1 55-6h: PDCCH repetition for Rel-16 PDCCH monitoring
    mTRP-PDCCH-legacyMonitoring-r18                 SEQUENCE {
        scs-15kHz-r18                                   PDCCH-RepetitionParameters-r17                                       OPTIONAL,
        scs-30kHz-r18                                   PDCCH-RepetitionParameters-r17                                       OPTIONAL
    }                                                                                                                        OPTIONAL,

    -- R4 42-1: Support of SCell without SS/PBCH block for inter-band CA
    scellWithoutSSB-InterBandCA-r18                 CHOICE {
        supportOfSingleGroup                            ENUMERATED {referenceBand, scellWithoutSSB, both},
        supportOfMultipleGroups                         ENUMERATED {referenceBand1, scellWithoutSSB1, referenceBand2, scellWithoutSSB2}
    }                                                                                                                        OPTIONAL,
    dummy                                           SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxBandsMRDC)) OF Dummy-PDCCH-RACH-DL-Info-r18        OPTIONAL
}

FeatureSetDownlink-v1830 ::=        SEQUENCE {
    -- R4 39-4: Interruption on DL slot(s) due to PDCCH- ordered RACH transmission
    pdcch-RACH-AffectedBands-TargetBandList-r18    SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxBandsMRDC)) OF ENUMERATED {noInterruption, interruption}
                                                                                                         OPTIONAL,
    -- R4 39-4a: Interruption due to RF retuning for PDCCH- ordered RACH
    pdcch-RACH-SwitchingTime-TargetBandList-r18    SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxBandsMRDC)) OF ENUMERATED {ms0, ms0dot25, ms0dot5, ms1, ms2, notSupported}
                                                                                                            OPTIONAL,
    -- R4 39-5: the RF/BB preparation time for PDCCH ordered RACH of which the resources are not fully contained
    -- in any of UE's configured UL BWP(s) of active serving cells
    pdcch-RACH-PrepTime-TargetBandList-r18         SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxBandsMRDC)) OF ENUMERATED {ms1, ms3, ms5, ms10, notSupported}
                                                                                                           OPTIONAL
}

FeatureSetDownlink-v1860 ::=      SEQUENCE {
    -- R1 40-5-5: Maximum 2 SP and 1 periodic SRS sets for 8T8R antenna switching
    srs-AntennaSwitching8T8R2SP-1Periodic-r18                   ENUMERATED {supported}                              OPTIONAL
}

PDCCH-MonitoringOccasions-r16 ::= SEQUENCE {
    period7span3-r16                  ENUMERATED {supported}                 OPTIONAL,
    period4span3-r16                  ENUMERATED {supported}                 OPTIONAL,
    period2span2-r16                  ENUMERATED {supported}                 OPTIONAL
}

PDCCH-RepetitionParameters-r17 ::= SEQUENCE {
    supportedMode-r17                  ENUMERATED {intra-span, inter-span, both},
    limitX-PerCC-r17                   ENUMERATED {n4, n8, n16, n32, n44, n64, nolimit}                      OPTIONAL,
    limitX-AcrossCC-r17                ENUMERATED {n4, n8, n16, n32, n44, n64, n128, n256, n512, nolimit}    OPTIONAL
}

DummyA ::=      SEQUENCE {
    maxNumberNZP-CSI-RS-PerCC                   INTEGER (1..32),
    maxNumberPortsAcrossNZP-CSI-RS-PerCC        ENUMERATED {p2, p4, p8, p12, p16, p24, p32, p40, p48, p56, p64, p72, p80,
                                                            p88, p96, p104, p112, p120, p128, p136, p144, p152, p160, p168,
                                                            p176, p184, p192, p200, p208, p216, p224, p232, p240, p248, p256},
    maxNumberCS-IM-PerCC                        ENUMERATED {n1, n2, n4, n8, n16, n32},
    maxNumberSimultaneousCSI-RS-ActBWP-AllCC    ENUMERATED {n5, n6, n7, n8, n9, n10, n12, n14, n16, n18, n20, n22, n24, n26,
                                                                n28, n30, n32, n34, n36, n38, n40, n42, n44, n46, n48, n50, n52,
                                                                n54, n56, n58, n60, n62, n64},
    totalNumberPortsSimultaneousCSI-RS-ActBWP-AllCC ENUMERATED {p8, p12, p16, p24, p32, p40, p48, p56, p64, p72, p80,
                                                                p88, p96, p104, p112, p120, p128, p136, p144, p152, p160, p168,
                                                                p176, p184, p192, p200, p208, p216, p224, p232, p240, p248, p256}
}

DummyB ::=       SEQUENCE {
    maxNumberTxPortsPerResource         ENUMERATED {p2, p4, p8, p12, p16, p24, p32},
    maxNumberResources                  INTEGER (1..64),
    totalNumberTxPorts                  INTEGER (2..256),
    supportedCodebookMode               ENUMERATED {mode1, mode1AndMode2},
    maxNumberCSI-RS-PerResourceSet      INTEGER (1..8)
}

DummyC ::=        SEQUENCE {
    maxNumberTxPortsPerResource         ENUMERATED {p8, p16, p32},
    maxNumberResources                  INTEGER (1..64),
    totalNumberTxPorts                  INTEGER (2..256),
    supportedCodebookMode               ENUMERATED {mode1, mode2, both},
    supportedNumberPanels               ENUMERATED {n2, n4},
    maxNumberCSI-RS-PerResourceSet      INTEGER (1..8)
}

DummyD ::=                 SEQUENCE {
    maxNumberTxPortsPerResource         ENUMERATED {p4, p8, p12, p16, p24, p32},
    maxNumberResources                  INTEGER (1..64),
    totalNumberTxPorts                  INTEGER (2..256),
    parameterLx                         INTEGER (2..4),
    amplitudeScalingType                ENUMERATED {wideband, widebandAndSubband},
    amplitudeSubsetRestriction          ENUMERATED {supported}                          OPTIONAL,
    maxNumberCSI-RS-PerResourceSet      INTEGER (1..8)
}

DummyE ::=    SEQUENCE {
    maxNumberTxPortsPerResource         ENUMERATED {p4, p8, p12, p16, p24, p32},
    maxNumberResources                  INTEGER (1..64),
    totalNumberTxPorts                  INTEGER (2..256),
    parameterLx                         INTEGER (2..4),
    amplitudeScalingType                ENUMERATED {wideband, widebandAndSubband},
    maxNumberCSI-RS-PerResourceSet      INTEGER (1..8)
}

Dummy-PDCCH-RACH-DL-Info-r18 ::=        CHOICE {
    notSupported                            NULL,
    supported                               SEQUENCE {
        -- R4 39-4: Interruption on DL slot(s) due to PDCCH- ordered RACH transmission
        pdcch-RACH-AffectedBands-r18            ENUMERATED {noIntrruption, interruption},
        -- R4 39-4a: Interruption on DL slot(s) due to PDCCH- ordered RACH transmission
        pdcch-RACH-SwitchingTimeList-r18        ENUMERATED {ms0, ms0dot25, ms0dot5 , ms1, ms2}                OPTIONAL,
        -- R4 39-5: the RF/BB preparation time for PDCCH ordered RACH of which the resources are not fully contained
        -- in any of UE's configured UL BWP(s) of active serving cells
        pdcch-RACH-PrepTime-r18                 ENUMERATED {ms1, ms3, ms5, ms10}                              OPTIONAL
    }
}

-- TAG-FEATURESETDOWNLINK-STOP
-- ASN1STOP



–	FeatureSetDownlinkId
The IE FeatureSetDownlinkId identifies a downlink feature set. The FeatureSetDownlinkId of a FeatureSetDownlink is the index position of the FeatureSetDownlink in the featureSetsDownlink list in the FeatureSets IE. The first element in that list is referred to by FeatureSetDownlinkId = 1. The FeatureSetDownlinkId=0 is not used by an actual FeatureSetDownlink but means that the UE does not support a carrier in this band of a band combination.
FeatureSetDownlinkId information element
-- ASN1START
-- TAG-FEATURESETDOWNLINKID-START

FeatureSetDownlinkId ::=            INTEGER (0..maxDownlinkFeatureSets)

-- TAG-FEATURESETDOWNLINKID-STOP
-- ASN1STOP

–	FeatureSetDownlinkPerCC
The IE FeatureSetDownlinkPerCC indicates a set of features that the UE supports on the corresponding carrier of one band entry of a band combination.
FeatureSetDownlinkPerCC information element
-- ASN1START
-- TAG-FEATURESETDOWNLINKPERCC-START

FeatureSetDownlinkPerCC ::=         SEQUENCE {
    supportedSubcarrierSpacingDL        SubcarrierSpacing,
    supportedBandwidthDL                SupportedBandwidth,
    channelBW-90mhz                     ENUMERATED {supported}                                                  OPTIONAL,
    maxNumberMIMO-LayersPDSCH           MIMO-LayersDL                                                           OPTIONAL,
    supportedModulationOrderDL          ModulationOrder                                                         OPTIONAL
}

FeatureSetDownlinkPerCC-v1620 ::=   SEQUENCE {
    -- R1 16-2a: Mulit-DCI based multi-TRP
    multiDCI-MultiTRP-r16               MultiDCI-MultiTRP-r16                                                   OPTIONAL,
    -- R1 16-2b-3: Support of single-DCI based FDMSchemeB
    supportFDM-SchemeB-r16              ENUMERATED {supported}                                                  OPTIONAL
}

FeatureSetDownlinkPerCC-v1700 ::=   SEQUENCE {
    supportedMinBandwidthDL-r17             SupportedBandwidth-v1700                                                OPTIONAL,
    broadcastSCell-r17                     ENUMERATED {supported}                                                  OPTIONAL,
    -- R1 33-2g: MIMO layers for multicast PDSCH
    maxNumberMIMO-LayersMulticastPDSCH-r17  ENUMERATED {n2, n4, n8}                                                 OPTIONAL,
    -- R1 33-2h: Dynamic scheduling for multicast for SCell
    dynamicMulticastSCell-r17               ENUMERATED {supported}                                                  OPTIONAL,
    supportedBandwidthDL-v1710              SupportedBandwidth-v1700                                                OPTIONAL,
    -- R4 24-1/24-2/24-3/24-4/24-5
    supportedCRS-InterfMitigation-r17       CRS-InterfMitigation-r17                                                OPTIONAL
}

FeatureSetDownlinkPerCC-v1720 ::=   SEQUENCE {
    -- R1 33-2j: Supported maximum modulation order used for maximum data rate calculation for multicast PDSCH
    maxModulationOrderForMulticastDataRateCalculation-r17  ENUMERATED {qam64, qam256, qam1024}                  OPTIONAL,
    -- R1 33-1-2: FDM-ed unicast PDSCH and group-common PDSCH for broadcast
    fdm-BroadcastUnicast-r17            ENUMERATED {supported}                                                  OPTIONAL,
    -- R1 33-3-2: FDM-ed unicast PDSCH and one group-common PDSCH for multicast
    fdm-MulticastUnicast-r17            ENUMERATED {supported}                                                  OPTIONAL
}

FeatureSetDownlinkPerCC-v1730 ::=           SEQUENCE {
    -- R1 33-3-3: Intra-slot TDM-ed unicast PDSCH and group-common PDSCH
    intraSlotTDM-UnicastGroupCommonPDSCH-r17    ENUMERATED {yes, no}                    OPTIONAL,
    -- R1 33-5-3: One SPS group-common PDSCH configuration for multicast for SCell
    sps-MulticastSCell-r17                      ENUMERATED {supported}                  OPTIONAL,
    -- R1 33-5-4: Up to 8 SPS group-common PDSCH configurations per CFR for multicast for SCell
    sps-MulticastSCellMultiConfig-r17           INTEGER (1..8)                          OPTIONAL,
    -- R1 33-1-1: Dynamic slot-level repetition for broadcast MTCH
    dci-BroadcastWith16Repetitions-r17          ENUMERATED {supported}                  OPTIONAL
}

FeatureSetDownlinkPerCC-v1780 ::=           SEQUENCE {
    supportedBandwidthDL-v1780                  SupportedBandwidth-v1700                OPTIONAL
}

FeatureSetDownlinkPerCC-v1800 ::=           SEQUENCE {
    -- R1 40-2-1: Basic feature for multi-DCI based intra-cell Multi-TRP operation with two TA enhancement
    multiDCI-IntraCellMultiTRP-TwoTA-r18        ENUMERATED {supported}                                          OPTIONAL,
    -- R1 40-2-2: Basic feature for multi-DCI based inter-cell Multi-TRP operation with two TA enhancement
    multiDCI-InterCellMultiTRP-TwoTA-r18        INTEGER (1..2)                                                  OPTIONAL,
    -- R1 40-2-6: Rx timing difference larger than CP length
    rxTimingDiff-r18                            ENUMERATED {supported}                                          OPTIONAL,

    -- R1 55-7: Two QCL TypeD for CORESET monitoring in multi-DCI based multi-TRP
    multiDCI-MultiTRP-CORESET-Monitoring-r18    ENUMERATED {supported}                                          OPTIONAL,
    broadcastNonServingCell-r18                 ENUMERATED {supported}                                          OPTIONAL,

    -- R4 30-1: Supports scheduling restriction relaxation and measurement restriction relaxation
    schedulingMeasurementRelaxation-r18         ENUMERATED {supported}                                          OPTIONAL
}

FeatureSetDownlinkPerCC-v1840 ::=           SEQUENCE {
    supportedBandwidthDL-v1840                  SupportedBandwidth-v1840                OPTIONAL,
    supportedMinBandwidthDL-v1840               SupportedBandwidth-v1840                OPTIONAL
}

MultiDCI-MultiTRP-r16 ::=           SEQUENCE {
    maxNumberCORESET-r16                ENUMERATED {n2, n3, n4, n5},
    maxNumberCORESETPerPoolIndex-r16    INTEGER (1..3),
    maxNumberUnicastPDSCH-PerPool-r16   ENUMERATED {n1, n2, n3, n4, n7}
}

CRS-InterfMitigation-r17 ::=        SEQUENCE {
    -- R4 24-1 CRS-IM (Interference Mitigation) in DSS scenario
    crs-IM-DSS-15kHzSCS-r17             ENUMERATED {supported}                                                  OPTIONAL,
    -- R4 24-2 CRS-IM in non-DSS and 15 kHz NR SCS scenario, without the assistance of network signaling on LTE channel bandwidth
    crs-IM-nonDSS-15kHzSCS-r17          ENUMERATED {supported}                                                  OPTIONAL,
    -- R4 24-3 CRS-IM in non-DSS and 15 kHz NR SCS scenario, with the assistance of network signaling on LTE channel bandwidth
    crs-IM-nonDSS-NWA-15kHzSCS-r17      ENUMERATED {supported}                                                  OPTIONAL,
    -- R4 24-4 CRS-IM in non-DSS and 30 kHz NR SCS scenario, without the assistance of network signaling on LTE channel bandwidth
    crs-IM-nonDSS-30kHzSCS-r17          ENUMERATED {supported}                                                  OPTIONAL,
    -- R4 24-5 CRS-IM in non-DSS and 30 kHz NR SCS scenario, with the assistance of network signaling on LTE channel bandwidth
    crs-IM-nonDSS-NWA-30kHzSCS-r17      ENUMERATED {supported}                                                  OPTIONAL
}

-- TAG-FEATURESETDOWNLINKPERCC-STOP
-- ASN1STOP

–	FeatureSetDownlinkPerCC-Id
The IE FeatureSetDownlinkPerCC-Id identifies a set of features applicable to one carrier of a feature set. The FeatureSetDownlinkPerCC-Id of a FeatureSetDownlinkPerCC is the index position of the FeatureSetDownlinkPerCC in the featureSetsDownlinkPerCC. The first element in the list is referred to by FeatureSetDownlinkPerCC-Id = 1, and so on.
FeatureSetDownlinkPerCC-Id information element
-- ASN1START
-- TAG-FEATURESETDOWNLINKPERCC-ID-START

FeatureSetDownlinkPerCC-Id ::=      INTEGER (1..maxPerCC-FeatureSets)

-- TAG-FEATURESETDOWNLINKPERCC-ID-STOP
-- ASN1STOP

–	FeatureSetEUTRA-DownlinkId
The IE FeatureSetEUTRA-DownlinkId identifies a downlink feature set in E-UTRA list (see TS 36.331 [10]. The first element in that list is referred to by FeatureSetEUTRA-DownlinkId = 1. The FeatureSetEUTRA-DownlinkId=0 is used when the UE does not support a carrier in this band of a band combination.
FeatureSetEUTRA-DownlinkId information element
-- ASN1START
-- TAG-FEATURESETEUTRADOWNLINKID-START

FeatureSetEUTRA-DownlinkId ::=      INTEGER (0..maxEUTRA-DL-FeatureSets)

-- TAG-FEATURESETEUTRADOWNLINKID-STOP
-- ASN1STOP

–	FeatureSetEUTRA-UplinkId
The IE FeatureSetEUTRA-UplinkId identifies an uplink feature set in E-UTRA list (see TS 36.331 [10]. The first element in that list is referred to by FeatureSetEUTRA-UplinkId = 1. The FeatureSetEUTRA-UplinkId =0 is used when the UE does not support a carrier in this band of a band combination.
FeatureSetEUTRA-UplinkId information element
-- ASN1START
-- TAG-FEATURESETEUTRAUPLINKID-START

FeatureSetEUTRA-UplinkId ::=                    INTEGER (0..maxEUTRA-UL-FeatureSets)

-- TAG-FEATURESETEUTRAUPLINKID-STOP
-- ASN1STOP

–	FeatureSets
The IE FeatureSets is used to provide pools of downlink and uplink features sets. A FeatureSetCombination refers to the IDs of the feature set(s) that the UE supports in that FeatureSetCombination. The BandCombination entries in the BandCombinationList then indicate the ID of the FeatureSetCombination that the UE supports for that band combination.
The entries in the lists in this IE are identified by their index position. For example, the FeatureSetUplinkPerCC-Id = 4 identifies the 4th element in the featureSetsUplinkPerCC list.
NOTE:	When feature sets (per CC) IEs require extension in future versions of the specification, new versions of the FeatureSetDownlink, FeatureSetUplink, FeatureSets, FeatureSetDownlinkPerCC and/or FeatureSetUplinkPerCC will be created and instantiated in corresponding new lists in the FeatureSets IE. For example, if new capability bits are to be added to the FeatureSetDownlink, they will instead be defined in a new FeatureSetDownlink-rxy which will be instantiated in a new featureSetDownlinkList-rxy list. If a UE indicates in a FeatureSetCombination that it supports the FeatureSetDownlink with ID #5, it implies that it supports both the features in FeatureSetDownlink #5 and FeatureSetDownlink-rxy #5 (if present). The number of entries in the new list(s) shall be the same as in the original list(s).
FeatureSets information element
-- ASN1START
-- TAG-FEATURESETS-START

FeatureSets ::=    SEQUENCE {
    featureSetsDownlink                 SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxDownlinkFeatureSets)) OF FeatureSetDownlink               OPTIONAL,
    featureSetsDownlinkPerCC            SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxPerCC-FeatureSets)) OF FeatureSetDownlinkPerCC            OPTIONAL,
    featureSetsUplink                   SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxUplinkFeatureSets)) OF FeatureSetUplink                   OPTIONAL,
    featureSetsUplinkPerCC              SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxPerCC-FeatureSets)) OF FeatureSetUplinkPerCC              OPTIONAL,
    ...,
    [[
    featureSetsDownlink-v1540           SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxDownlinkFeatureSets)) OF FeatureSetDownlink-v1540         OPTIONAL,
    featureSetsUplink-v1540             SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxUplinkFeatureSets)) OF FeatureSetUplink-v1540             OPTIONAL,
    featureSetsUplinkPerCC-v1540        SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxPerCC-FeatureSets)) OF FeatureSetUplinkPerCC-v1540        OPTIONAL
    ]],
    [[
    featureSetsDownlink-v15a0           SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxDownlinkFeatureSets)) OF FeatureSetDownlink-v15a0         OPTIONAL
    ]],
    [[
    featureSetsDownlink-v1610           SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxDownlinkFeatureSets)) OF FeatureSetDownlink-v1610         OPTIONAL,
    featureSetsUplink-v1610             SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxUplinkFeatureSets)) OF FeatureSetUplink-v1610             OPTIONAL,
    featureSetDownlinkPerCC-v1620       SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxPerCC-FeatureSets)) OF FeatureSetDownlinkPerCC-v1620      OPTIONAL
    ]],
    [[
    featureSetsUplink-v1630             SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxUplinkFeatureSets)) OF FeatureSetUplink-v1630             OPTIONAL
    ]],
    [[
    featureSetsUplink-v1640             SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxUplinkFeatureSets)) OF FeatureSetUplink-v1640             OPTIONAL
    ]],
    [[
    featureSetsDownlink-v1700           SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxDownlinkFeatureSets)) OF FeatureSetDownlink-v1700         OPTIONAL,
    featureSetsDownlinkPerCC-v1700      SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxPerCC-FeatureSets)) OF FeatureSetDownlinkPerCC-v1700      OPTIONAL,
    featureSetsUplink-v1710             SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxUplinkFeatureSets)) OF FeatureSetUplink-v1710             OPTIONAL,
    featureSetsUplinkPerCC-v1700        SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxPerCC-FeatureSets)) OF FeatureSetUplinkPerCC-v1700        OPTIONAL
    ]],
    [[
    featureSetsDownlink-v1720           SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxDownlinkFeatureSets)) OF FeatureSetDownlink-v1720         OPTIONAL,
    featureSetsDownlinkPerCC-v1720      SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxPerCC-FeatureSets)) OF FeatureSetDownlinkPerCC-v1720      OPTIONAL,
    featureSetsUplink-v1720             SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxUplinkFeatureSets)) OF FeatureSetUplink-v1720             OPTIONAL
    ]],
    [[
    featureSetsDownlink-v1730           SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxDownlinkFeatureSets)) OF FeatureSetDownlink-v1730         OPTIONAL,
    featureSetsDownlinkPerCC-v1730      SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxPerCC-FeatureSets)) OF FeatureSetDownlinkPerCC-v1730      OPTIONAL
    ]],
    [[
    featureSetsDownlinkPerCC-v1780      SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxPerCC-FeatureSets)) OF FeatureSetDownlinkPerCC-v1780      OPTIONAL,
    featureSetsUplinkPerCC-v1780        SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxPerCC-FeatureSets)) OF FeatureSetUplinkPerCC-v1780        OPTIONAL
    ]],
    [[
    featureSetsDownlink-v1800           SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxDownlinkFeatureSets)) OF FeatureSetDownlink-v1800         OPTIONAL,
    featureSetsDownlinkPerCC-v1800      SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxPerCC-FeatureSets)) OF FeatureSetDownlinkPerCC-v1800      OPTIONAL,
    featureSetsUplink-v1800             SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxUplinkFeatureSets)) OF FeatureSetUplink-v1800             OPTIONAL,
    featureSetsUplinkPerCC-v1800        SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxPerCC-FeatureSets)) OF FeatureSetUplinkPerCC-v1800        OPTIONAL
    ]],
    [[
    featureSetsDownlink-v1830           SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxDownlinkFeatureSets)) OF FeatureSetDownlink-v1830         OPTIONAL
    ]],
    [[
    featureSetsDownlinkPerCC-v1840      SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxPerCC-FeatureSets)) OF FeatureSetDownlinkPerCC-v1840      OPTIONAL,
    featureSetsUplinkPerCC-v1840        SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxPerCC-FeatureSets)) OF FeatureSetUplinkPerCC-v1840        OPTIONAL
    ]],
    [[
    featureSetsUplink-v1850             SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxUplinkFeatureSets)) OF FeatureSetUplink-v1850             OPTIONAL,
    featureSetsUplinkPerCC-v1850        SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxPerCC-FeatureSets)) OF FeatureSetUplinkPerCC-v1850        OPTIONAL
    ]],
    [[
    featureSetsDownlink-v1860           SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxDownlinkFeatureSets)) OF FeatureSetDownlink-v1860         OPTIONAL
    ]]
}

FeatureSets-v15t0 ::=    SEQUENCE {
    featureSetsDownlink-v15t0           SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxDownlinkFeatureSets)) OF FeatureSetDownlink-v15t0         OPTIONAL
}

FeatureSets-v16d0 ::=    SEQUENCE {
    featureSetsUplink-v16d0             SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxUplinkFeatureSets)) OF FeatureSetUplink-v16d0             OPTIONAL
}

FeatureSets-v16k0 ::=    SEQUENCE {
    featureSetsDownlink-v16k0           SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxDownlinkFeatureSets)) OF FeatureSetDownlink-v16k0         OPTIONAL
}

FeatureSets-v17d0 ::=    SEQUENCE {
    featureSetsDownlink-v17d0           SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxDownlinkFeatureSets)) OF FeatureSetDownlink-v17d0         OPTIONAL
}

-- TAG-FEATURESETS-STOP
-- ASN1STOP

–	FeatureSetUplink
The IE FeatureSetUplink is used to indicate the features that the UE supports on the carriers corresponding to one band entry in a band combination.
FeatureSetUplink information element
-- ASN1START
-- TAG-FEATURESETUPLINK-START

FeatureSetUplink ::=                SEQUENCE {
    featureSetListPerUplinkCC           SEQUENCE (SIZE (1.. maxNrofServingCells)) OF FeatureSetUplinkPerCC-Id,
    scalingFactor                       ENUMERATED {f0p4, f0p75, f0p8}                                          OPTIONAL,
    dummy3                              ENUMERATED {supported}                                                  OPTIONAL,
    intraBandFreqSeparationUL           FreqSeparationClass                                                     OPTIONAL,
    searchSpaceSharingCA-UL             ENUMERATED {supported}                                                  OPTIONAL,
    dummy1                              DummyI                                                                  OPTIONAL,
    supportedSRS-Resources              SRS-Resources                                                           OPTIONAL,
    twoPUCCH-Group                      ENUMERATED {supported}                                                  OPTIONAL,
    dynamicSwitchSUL                    ENUMERATED {supported}                                                  OPTIONAL,
    simultaneousTxSUL-NonSUL            ENUMERATED {supported}                                                  OPTIONAL,
    pusch-ProcessingType1-DifferentTB-PerSlot SEQUENCE {
        scs-15kHz                                 ENUMERATED {upto2, upto4, upto7}                                  OPTIONAL,
        scs-30kHz                                 ENUMERATED {upto2, upto4, upto7}                                  OPTIONAL,
        scs-60kHz                                 ENUMERATED {upto2, upto4, upto7}                                  OPTIONAL,
        scs-120kHz                                ENUMERATED {upto2, upto4, upto7}                                  OPTIONAL
    }                                                                                                           OPTIONAL,
    dummy2                               DummyF                                                                 OPTIONAL
}

FeatureSetUplink-v1540 ::=           SEQUENCE {
    zeroSlotOffsetAperiodicSRS           ENUMERATED {supported}                     OPTIONAL,
    pa-PhaseDiscontinuityImpacts         ENUMERATED {supported}                     OPTIONAL,
    pusch-SeparationWithGap              ENUMERATED {supported}                     OPTIONAL,
    pusch-ProcessingType2                SEQUENCE {
        scs-15kHz                            ProcessingParameters                       OPTIONAL,
        scs-30kHz                            ProcessingParameters                       OPTIONAL,
        scs-60kHz                            ProcessingParameters                       OPTIONAL
    }                                                                               OPTIONAL,
    ul-MCS-TableAlt-DynamicIndication    ENUMERATED {supported}                     OPTIONAL
}

FeatureSetUplink-v1610 ::=       SEQUENCE {
    -- R1 11-5: PUsCH repetition Type B
    pusch-RepetitionTypeB-r16        SEQUENCE {
        maxNumberPUSCH-Tx-r16            ENUMERATED {n2, n3, n4, n7, n8, n12},
        hoppingScheme-r16                ENUMERATED {interSlotHopping, interRepetitionHopping, both}
    }                                                                              OPTIONAL,
    -- R1 11-7: UL cancelation scheme for self-carrier
    ul-CancellationSelfCarrier-r16       ENUMERATED {supported}                    OPTIONAL,
    -- R1 11-7a: UL cancelation scheme for cross-carrier
    ul-CancellationCrossCarrier-r16      ENUMERATED {supported}                    OPTIONAL,
    -- R1 16-5c: The maximum number of SRS resources in one SRS resource set with usage set to 'codebook' for Mode 2
    ul-FullPwrMode2-MaxSRS-ResInSet-r16  ENUMERATED {n1, n2, n4}                   OPTIONAL,

    -- R1 22-4a/4b/4c/4d: CBG based transmission for UL with unicast PUSCH(s) per slot per CC with UE processing time Capability 1
    cbgPUSCH-ProcessingType1-DifferentTB-PerSlot-r16    SEQUENCE {
        scs-15kHz-r16        ENUMERATED {one-pusch, upto2, upto4, upto7}               OPTIONAL,
        scs-30kHz-r16        ENUMERATED {one-pusch, upto2, upto4, upto7}               OPTIONAL,
        scs-60kHz-r16        ENUMERATED {one-pusch, upto2, upto4, upto7}               OPTIONAL,
        scs-120kHz-r16       ENUMERATED {one-pusch, upto2, upto4, upto7}               OPTIONAL
     } OPTIONAL,

    -- R1 22-3a/3b/3c/3d: CBG based transmission for UL with unicast PUSCH(s) per slot per CC with UE processing time Capability 2
    cbgPUSCH-ProcessingType2-DifferentTB-PerSlot-r16    SEQUENCE {
        scs-15kHz-r16        ENUMERATED {one-pusch, upto2, upto4, upto7}               OPTIONAL,
        scs-30kHz-r16        ENUMERATED {one-pusch, upto2, upto4, upto7}               OPTIONAL,
        scs-60kHz-r16        ENUMERATED {one-pusch, upto2, upto4, upto7}               OPTIONAL,
        scs-120kHz-r16       ENUMERATED {one-pusch, upto2, upto4, upto7}               OPTIONAL
     } OPTIONAL,
    supportedSRS-PosResources-r16              SRS-AllPosResources-r16             OPTIONAL,
    intraFreqDAPS-UL-r16                             SEQUENCE {
        dummy                                            ENUMERATED {supported}    OPTIONAL,
        intraFreqTwoTAGs-DAPS-r16                        ENUMERATED {supported}    OPTIONAL,
        dummy1                                           ENUMERATED {supported}    OPTIONAL,
        dummy2                                           ENUMERATED {supported}    OPTIONAL,
        dummy3                                           ENUMERATED {short, long}  OPTIONAL
    }                                                                              OPTIONAL,
    intraBandFreqSeparationUL-v1620                  FreqSeparationClassUL-v1620   OPTIONAL,

    -- R1 11-3: More than one PUCCH for HARQ-ACK transmission within a slot
    multiPUCCH-r16                        SEQUENCE {
        sub-SlotConfig-NCP-r16                ENUMERATED {set1, set2}              OPTIONAL,
        sub-SlotConfig-ECP-r16                ENUMERATED {set1, set2}              OPTIONAL
    }                                                                              OPTIONAL,
    -- R1 11-3c: 2 PUCCH of format 0 or 2 for a single 7*2-symbol subslot based HARQ-ACK codebook
    twoPUCCH-Type1-r16                    ENUMERATED {supported}                   OPTIONAL,
    -- R1 11-3d: 2 PUCCH of format 0 or 2 for a single 2*7-symbol subslot based HARQ-ACK codebook
    twoPUCCH-Type2-r16                    ENUMERATED {supported}                   OPTIONAL,
    -- R1 11-3e: 1 PUCCH format 0 or 2 and 1 PUCCH format 1, 3 or 4 in the same subslot for a single 2*7-symbol HARQ-ACK codebooks
    twoPUCCH-Type3-r16                    ENUMERATED {supported}                   OPTIONAL,
    -- R1 11-3f: 2 PUCCH transmissions in the same subslot for a single 2*7-symbol HARQ-ACK codebooks which are not covered by 11-3d and
    -- 11-3e
    twoPUCCH-Type4-r16                    ENUMERATED {supported}                   OPTIONAL,
    -- R1 11-3g: SR/HARQ-ACK multiplexing once per subslot using a PUCCH (or HARQ-ACK piggybacked on a PUSCH) when SR/HARQ-ACK
    -- are supposed to be sent with different starting symbols in a subslot
    mux-SR-HARQ-ACK-r16                   ENUMERATED {supported}                   OPTIONAL,
    dummy1                                ENUMERATED {supported}                   OPTIONAL,
    dummy2                                ENUMERATED {supported}                   OPTIONAL,
    -- R1 11-4c: 2 PUCCH of format 0 or 2 for two HARQ-ACK codebooks with one 7*2-symbol sub-slot based HARQ-ACK codebook
    twoPUCCH-Type5-r16                    ENUMERATED {supported}                   OPTIONAL,
    -- R1 11-4d: 2 PUCCH of format 0 or 2 in consecutive symbols for two HARQ-ACK codebooks with one 2*7-symbol sub-slot based HARQ-ACK
    -- codebook
    twoPUCCH-Type6-r16                    ENUMERATED {supported}                   OPTIONAL,
    -- R1 11-4e: 2 PUCCH of format 0 or 2 for two subslot based HARQ-ACK codebooks
    twoPUCCH-Type7-r16                    ENUMERATED {supported}                   OPTIONAL,
    -- R1 11-4f: 1 PUCCH format 0 or 2 and 1 PUCCH format 1, 3 or 4 in the same subslot for HARQ-ACK codebooks with one 2*7-symbol
    -- subslot based HARQ-ACK codebook
    twoPUCCH-Type8-r16                    ENUMERATED {supported}                   OPTIONAL,
    -- R1 11-4g: 1 PUCCH format 0 or 2 and 1 PUCCH format 1, 3 or 4 in the same subslot for two subslot based HARQ-ACK codebooks
    twoPUCCH-Type9-r16                    ENUMERATED {supported}                   OPTIONAL,
    -- R1 11-4h: 2 PUCCH transmissions in the same subslot for two HARQ-ACK codebooks with one 2*7-symbol subslot which are not covered
    -- by 11-4c and 11-4e
    twoPUCCH-Type10-r16                   ENUMERATED {supported}                   OPTIONAL,
    -- R1 11-4i: 2 PUCCH transmissions in the same subslot for two subslot based HARQ-ACK codebooks which are not covered by 11-4d and
    -- 11-4f
    twoPUCCH-Type11-r16                   ENUMERATED {supported}                   OPTIONAL,
    -- R1 12-1: UL intra-UE multiplexing/prioritization of overlapping channel/signals with two priority levels in physical layer
    ul-IntraUE-Mux-r16                    SEQUENCE {
        pusch-PreparationLowPriority-r16      ENUMERATED {sym0, sym1, sym2},
        pusch-PreparationHighPriority-r16     ENUMERATED {sym0, sym1, sym2}
    }                                                                              OPTIONAL,
    -- R1 16-5a: Supported UL full power transmission mode of fullpower
    ul-FullPwrMode-r16                    ENUMERATED {supported}                   OPTIONAL,
    -- R1 18-5d: Processing up to X unicast DCI scheduling for UL per scheduled CC
    crossCarrierSchedulingProcessing-DiffSCS-r16    SEQUENCE {
        scs-15kHz-120kHz-r16                  ENUMERATED {n1,n2,n4}                OPTIONAL,
        scs-15kHz-60kHz-r16                   ENUMERATED {n1,n2,n4}                OPTIONAL,
        scs-30kHz-120kHz-r16                  ENUMERATED {n1,n2,n4}                OPTIONAL,
        scs-15kHz-30kHz-r16                   ENUMERATED {n2}                      OPTIONAL,
        scs-30kHz-60kHz-r16                   ENUMERATED {n2}                      OPTIONAL,
        scs-60kHz-120kHz-r16                  ENUMERATED {n2}                      OPTIONAL
    }                                                                              OPTIONAL,
    -- R1 16-5b: Supported UL full power transmission mode of fullpowerMode1
    ul-FullPwrMode1-r16                   ENUMERATED {supported}                   OPTIONAL,
    -- R1 16-5c-2: Ports configuration for Mode 2
    ul-FullPwrMode2-SRSConfig-diffNumSRSPorts-r16  ENUMERATED {p1-2, p1-4, p1-2-4} OPTIONAL,
    -- R1 16-5c-3: TPMI group for Mode 2
    ul-FullPwrMode2-TPMIGroup-r16         SEQUENCE {
        twoPorts-r16                          BIT STRING(SIZE(2))                      OPTIONAL,
        fourPortsNonCoherent-r16              ENUMERATED{g0, g1, g2, g3}               OPTIONAL,
        fourPortsPartialCoherent-r16          ENUMERATED{g0, g1, g2, g3, g4, g5, g6}   OPTIONAL
    }                                                                                  OPTIONAL
}

FeatureSetUplink-v1630 ::=       SEQUENCE {
    -- R1 22-8: For SRS for CB PUSCH and antenna switching on FR1 with symbol level offset for aperiodic SRS transmission
    offsetSRS-CB-PUSCH-Ant-Switch-fr1-r16                       ENUMERATED {supported}                   OPTIONAL,
    -- R1 22-8a: PDCCH monitoring on any span of up to 3 consecutive OFDM symbols of a slot and constrained timeline for SRS for CB
    -- PUSCH and antenna switching on FR1
    offsetSRS-CB-PUSCH-PDCCH-MonitorSingleOcc-fr1-r16           ENUMERATED {supported}                   OPTIONAL,
    -- R1 22-8b: For type 1 CSS with dedicated RRC configuration, type 3 CSS, and UE-SS, monitoring occasion can be any OFDM symbol(s)
    -- of a slot for Case 2 and constrained timeline for SRS for CB PUSCH and antenna switching on FR1
    offsetSRS-CB-PUSCH-PDCCH-MonitorAnyOccWithoutGap-fr1-r16    ENUMERATED {supported}                   OPTIONAL,
    -- R1 22-8c: For type 1 CSS with dedicated RRC configuration, type 3 CSS, and UE-SS, monitoring occasion can be any OFDM symbol(s)
    -- of a slot for Case 2 with a DCI gap and constrained timeline for SRS for CB PUSCH and antenna switching on FR1
    offsetSRS-CB-PUSCH-PDCCH-MonitorAnyOccWithGap-fr1-r16       ENUMERATED {supported}                   OPTIONAL,
    dummy                                                       ENUMERATED {supported}                   OPTIONAL,
    -- R1 22-9: Cancellation of PUCCH, PUSCH or PRACH with a DCI scheduling a PDSCH or CSI-RS or a DCI format 2_0 for SFI
    partialCancellationPUCCH-PUSCH-PRACH-TX-r16                 ENUMERATED {supported}                   OPTIONAL
}

FeatureSetUplink-v1640 ::=              SEQUENCE {
   -- R1 11-4: Two HARQ-ACK codebooks with up to one sub-slot based HARQ-ACK codebook (i.e. slot-based + slot-based, or slot-based +
    -- sub-slot based) simultaneously constructed for supporting HARQ-ACK codebooks with different priorities at a UE
    twoHARQ-ACK-Codebook-type1-r16          SubSlot-Config-r16      OPTIONAL,
    -- R1 11-4a: Two sub-slot based HARQ-ACK codebooks simultaneously constructed for supporting HARQ-ACK codebooks with different
    -- priorities at a UE
    twoHARQ-ACK-Codebook-type2-r16          SubSlot-Config-r16      OPTIONAL,
    -- R1 22-8d: All PDCCH monitoring occasion can be any OFDM symbol(s) of a slot for Case 2 with a span gap and constrained timeline
    -- for SRS for CB PUSCH and antenna switching on FR1
    offsetSRS-CB-PUSCH-PDCCH-MonitorAnyOccWithSpanGap-fr1-r16 SEQUENCE {
        scs-15kHz-r16                                 ENUMERATED {set1, set2, set3}                             OPTIONAL,
        scs-30kHz-r16                                 ENUMERATED {set1, set2, set3}                             OPTIONAL,
        scs-60kHz-r16                                 ENUMERATED {set1, set2, set3}                             OPTIONAL
    }                                                                                                           OPTIONAL
}

FeatureSetUplink-v16d0 ::=       SEQUENCE {
    pusch-RepetitionTypeB-v16d0      SEQUENCE {
        maxNumberPUSCH-Tx-Cap1-r16       ENUMERATED {n2, n3, n4, n7, n8, n12},
        maxNumberPUSCH-Tx-Cap2-r16       ENUMERATED {n2, n3, n4, n7, n8, n12}
    }                                                                                         OPTIONAL
}

FeatureSetUplink-v1710 ::= SEQUENCE {
    -- R1 23-3-1	Multi-TRP PUSCH repetition (type A) -codebook based
    mTRP-PUSCH-TypeA-CB-r17                ENUMERATED {n1,n2,n4}                              OPTIONAL,
    -- R1 23-3-1-2	Multi-TRP PUSCH repetition (type A) - non-codebook based
    mTRP-PUSCH-RepetitionTypeA-r17         ENUMERATED {n1,n2,n3,n4}                           OPTIONAL,
    -- R1 23-3-3	Multi-TRP PUCCH repetition-intra-slot
    mTRP-PUCCH-IntraSlot-r17               ENUMERATED {pf0-2, pf1-3-4, pf0-4}                 OPTIONAL,
    -- R1 23-8-4	Maximum 2 SP and 1 periodic SRS sets for antenna switching
    srs-AntennaSwitching2SP-1Periodic-r17  ENUMERATED {supported}                             OPTIONAL,
    -- R1 23-8-9	Extension of aperiodic SRS configuration for 1T4R, 1T2R and 2T4R
    srs-ExtensionAperiodicSRS-r17          ENUMERATED {supported}                             OPTIONAL,
    -- R1 23-8-10	1 aperiodic SRS resource set for 1T4R
    srs-OneAP-SRS-r17                      ENUMERATED {supported}                             OPTIONAL,
    -- R4 16-8 UE power class per band per band combination
    ue-PowerClassPerBandPerBC-r17          ENUMERATED {pc1dot5, pc2, pc3}                     OPTIONAL,
    -- R4 17-8 UL transmission in FR2 bands within an UL gap when the UL gap is activated
    tx-Support-UL-GapFR2-r17               ENUMERATED {supported}                             OPTIONAL
}

FeatureSetUplink-v1720 ::= SEQUENCE {
    -- R1 25-3: Repetitions for PUCCH format 0, 1, 2, 3 and 4 over multiple PUCCH subslots with configured K = 2, 4, 8
    pucch-Repetition-F0-1-2-3-4-RRC-Config-r17         ENUMERATED {supported}                 OPTIONAL,
    -- R1 25-3a: Repetitions for PUCCH format 0, 1, 2, 3 and 4 over multiple PUCCH subslots using dynamic repetition indication
    pucch-Repetition-F0-1-2-3-4-DynamicIndication-r17  ENUMERATED {supported}                 OPTIONAL,
    -- R1 25-3b: Inter-subslot frequency hopping for PUCCH repetitions
    interSubslotFreqHopping-PUCCH-r17                  ENUMERATED {supported}                 OPTIONAL,
    -- R1 25-8: Semi-static HARQ-ACK codebook for sub-slot PUCCH
    semiStaticHARQ-ACK-CodebookSub-SlotPUCCH-r17       ENUMERATED {supported}                 OPTIONAL,
    -- R1 25-14: PHY prioritization of overlapping low-priority DG-PUSCH and high-priority CG-PUSCH
    phy-PrioritizationLowPriorityDG-HighPriorityCG-r17 INTEGER(1..16)                         OPTIONAL,
    -- R1 25-15: PHY prioritization of overlapping high-priority DG-PUSCH and low-priority CG-PUSCH
    phy-PrioritizationHighPriorityDG-LowPriorityCG-r17 SEQUENCE {
        pusch-PreparationLowPriority-r17                   ENUMERATED{sym0, sym1, sym2},
        additionalCancellationTime-r17                     SEQUENCE {
            scs-15kHz-r17                                      ENUMERATED{sym0, sym1, sym2}   OPTIONAL,
            scs-30kHz-r17                                      ENUMERATED{sym0, sym1, sym2, sym3, sym4}    OPTIONAL,
            scs-60kHz-r17                                      ENUMERATED{sym0, sym1, sym2, sym3, sym4, sym5, sym6, sym7, sym8} OPTIONAL,
            scs-120kHz-r17                                     ENUMERATED{sym0, sym1, sym2, sym3, sym4, sym5, sym6, sym7, sym8, sym9,
                                                                          sym10, sym11, sym12, sym13, sym14, sym15, sym16}    OPTIONAL
        },
        maxNumberCarriers-r17                              INTEGER(1..16)
    }                                                                                         OPTIONAL,
    -- R4 17-5 Support of UL DC location(s) report
    extendedDC-LocationReport-r17                      ENUMERATED {supported}                 OPTIONAL
}

FeatureSetUplink-v1800 ::=                         SEQUENCE {
    -- R1 40-3-3-1a: Supported maximum delay value larger than D_basic
    maxDelayValueBeyondD-Basic-r18                     ENUMERATED {sl2,sl3,sl4,sl5,sl6,sl10}                        OPTIONAL,
    -- R1 40-3-3-2: Number of delay values
    tdcp-NumberDelayValue-r18                          INTEGER (2..4)                                               OPTIONAL,
    -- R1 40-3-3-4: Phase report
    phaseReportMoreThanOne-r18                         ENUMERATED {supported}                                       OPTIONAL,
    -- R1 40-3-3-6: Maximum number of TRS resource sets in a report configuration
    maxNumberTRS-ResourceSet-r18                       INTEGER (2..3)                                               OPTIONAL,
    -- R1 40-3-3-7: Maximum number of TDCP report settings per-BWP
    maxNumberTDCP-PerBWP-r18                           INTEGER (1..4)                                               OPTIONAL,

    -- R1 40-4-6c: DMRS type for Rel.18 enhanced DMRS ports for PUSCH
    pusch-DMRS-TypeEnh-r18                             SEQUENCE {
        dmrs-Type-r18                                      ENUMERATED {etype1, both},
        pusch-TypeA-DMRS-r18                               SEQUENCE {
            -- R1 40-4-6: Basic feature of Rel.18 enhanced DMRS ports for PUSCH for scheduling mapping of type A for Rel.18 enhanced
            -- DMRS ports
            dmrs-TypeA-r18                                     ENUMERATED {supported},
            -- R1 40-4-6d: 2 symbols front-loaded DMRS (uplink) for Rel.18 enhanced DMRS ports for PUSCH
            pusch-2SymbolFL-DMRS-r18                           ENUMERATED {supported}                               OPTIONAL,
            -- R1 40-4-6e: 2-symbol FL DMRS + one additional 2-symbols DMRS for Rel.18 enhanced DMRS ports for PUSCH
            pusch-2SymbolFL-DMRS-Addition2Symbol-r18           ENUMERATED {supported}                               OPTIONAL,
            -- R1 40-4-6f: 1 symbol FL DMRS and 3 additional DMRS symbols for Rel.18 enhanced DMRS ports for PUSCH
            pusch-1SymbolFL-DMRS-Addition3Symbol-r18           ENUMERATED {supported}                               OPTIONAL,
            -- R1 40-4-6k: 1 symbol FL DMRS and 2 additional DMRS symbols for more than one port for Rel.18 enhanced DMRS ports for
            -- PUSCH
            pusch-1SymbolFL-DMRS-BeyondOnePort-r18             ENUMERATED {supported}                               OPTIONAL
        }                                                                                                           OPTIONAL,
        -- R1 40-4-10: DMRS port configuration for PUSCH with 8Tx
        dummy                                              ENUMERATED {rel15, both}                                 OPTIONAL,
          -- R1 40-4-6a: Basic feature of Rel.18 enhanced DMRS ports for PUSCH for scheduling type B for Rel.18 enhanced DMRS ports
        pusch-TypeB-DMRS-r18                               ENUMERATED {supported}                                   OPTIONAL,
        -- R1 40-4-6g: 1 port UL PTRS for Rel.18 enhanced DMRS ports for PUSCH with rank 1-4
        pusch-rank-1-4-1Port-r18                           ENUMERATED {supported}                                   OPTIONAL,
        -- R1 40-4-6h: 1 port UL PTRS for Rel.18 enhanced DMRS ports for PUSCH with rank 5-8
        pusch-rank-5-8-1Port-r18                           ENUMERATED {supported}                                   OPTIONAL,
        -- R1 40-4-6i: 2 port UL PTRS for Rel.18 enhanced DMRS ports for PUSCH with rank 1-4
        pusch-rank-1-4-2Port-r18                           ENUMERATED {supported}                                   OPTIONAL,
        -- R1 40-4-6j: 2 port UL PTRS for Rel.18 enhanced DMRS ports for PUSCH with rank 5-8
        pusch-rank-5-8-2Port-r18                           ENUMERATED {supported}                                   OPTIONAL
    }                                                                                                               OPTIONAL,
    -- R1 40-4-13: Support Rel-18 UL DMRS with single-DCI based M-TRP
    ul-DMRS-SingleDCI-M-TRP-r18                        ENUMERATED {supported}                                       OPTIONAL,
    -- R1 40-4-14: Support Rel-18 UL DMRS with M-DCI based M-TRP
    ul-DMRS-M-DCI-M-TRP-r18                            ENUMERATED {supported}                                       OPTIONAL,
    -- R1 40-5-5: Maximum 2 SP and 1 periodic SRS sets for 8T8R antenna switching
    srs-AntennaSwitching8T8R2SP-1Periodic-r18                   ENUMERATED {supported}                              OPTIONAL,

    -- R1 40-6-4: Single-DCI based STx2P SFN scheme for PUCCH
    pucch-SingleDCI-STx2P-SFN-r18                      ENUMERATED {pf0-2, pf1-3-4, pf0-4}                           OPTIONAL,

    -- R1 41-4-6: Positioning SRS bandwidth aggregation in RRC_CONNECTED
    posSRS-BWA-RRC-Connected-r18                       PosSRS-BWA-RRC-Connected-r18                                 OPTIONAL,
    -- R1 41-4-7: Positioning SRS bandwidth aggregation independent from UL communication CA in RRC_CONNECTED
    posSRS-BWA-IndependentCA-RRC-Connected-r18         PosSRS-BWA-IndependentCA-RRC-Connected-r18                   OPTIONAL,
    -- R1 41-4-9: Indicate which other bands in the band combination are affected due to the need of a guard period
    posSRS-BWA-AffectedBandList-r18                    SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxBands)) OF FreqBandIndicatorNR         OPTIONAL,
    -- R1 45-5a: RACH-based early TA acquisition with simultaneous transmission
    rach-EarlyTA-BandList-r18                          SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxBandsMRDC)) OF BOOLEAN                 OPTIONAL,

    -- R1 49-6: Two HARQ-ACK codebooks with up to one sub-slot based HARQ-ACK codebook simultaneously constructed for supporting
    -- HARQ-ACK codebooks with different priorities by DCI format 1_3
    simultaneous-2-1-HARQ-ACK-CB-r18                   SubSlot-Config-r16                                           OPTIONAL,
    -- R1 49-6a: Two HARQ-ACK codebooks with two sub-slot based HARQ-ACK codebook simultaneously constructed for supporting
    -- HARQ-ACK codebooks with different priorities by DCI format 1_3
    simultaneous-2-2-HARQ-ACK-CB-r18                   SubSlot-Config-r16                                           OPTIONAL,
    -- R1 49-7: UL intra-UE multiplexing/prioritization of overlapping channel/signals with two priority levels in physical
    -- layer for DCI format 1_3/0_3
    ul-IntraUE-MuxEnh-r18                              SEQUENCE {
        pusch-PreparationLowPriority-r18                   ENUMERATED {sym0, sym1, sym2},
        pusch-PreparationHighPriority-r18                  ENUMERATED {sym0, sym1, sym2}
    }                                                                                                               OPTIONAL,

    -- R4 27-1 TxDiversity for 4Tx
    txDiversity4Tx-r18                                 ENUMERATED {supported}                                       OPTIONAL,

    -- R4 41-2: Power boosting for DFT-s-OFDM pi/2 BPSK and QPSK transmissions without modified spectrum flatness requirement
    powerBoosting-pi2BPSK-QPSK-r18                     ENUMERATED {supported}                                       OPTIONAL,
    -- R4 41-3: Power boosting for DFT-s-OFDM pi/2 BPSK and QPSK transmissions with modified spectrum flatness requirement shaping
    powerBoosting-pi2BPSK-QPSK-Modified-r18            ENUMERATED {supported}                                       OPTIONAL,
    -- R4 44-1 TxDiversity for 2Tx
    txDiversity2Tx-r18                                 ENUMERATED {supported}                                       OPTIONAL,
    ue-PowerClassPerBandPerBC-v1820                    ENUMERATED {pc5}                                             OPTIONAL
}

FeatureSetUplink-v1850 ::=                             SEQUENCE {
    -- R1 40-4-10: DMRS port configuration for PUSCH with 8Tx
    pusch-DMRS8Tx-r18                                      ENUMERATED {rel15, both}                                 OPTIONAL,
    -- R1 40-7-1h: UE 8Tx PUSCH processing capability for codebook
    additionalTime-CB-8TxPUSCH-r18                     SEQUENCE {
        scs-15kHz-r18                                      ENUMERATED {sym1, sym2, sym4}                            OPTIONAL,
        scs-30kHz-r18                                      ENUMERATED {sym1, sym2, sym4, sym8}                      OPTIONAL,
        scs-60kHz-r18                                      ENUMERATED {sym2, sym4, sym8, sym16}                     OPTIONAL,
        scs-120kHz-r18                                      ENUMERATED {sym4, sym8, sym16, sym32}                   OPTIONAL,
        scs-480kHz-r18                                      ENUMERATED {sym16, sym32, sym64, sym128}                OPTIONAL,
        scs-960kHz-r18                                      ENUMERATED {sym32, sym64, sym128, sym256}               OPTIONAL
    }                                                                                                               OPTIONAL,
    -- R1 40-7-2b: UE 8Tx PUSCH processing capability for non-codebook
    additionalTime-NonCB-8TxPUSCH-r18                     SEQUENCE {
        scs-15kHz-r18                                      ENUMERATED {sym1, sym2, sym4}                            OPTIONAL,
        scs-30kHz-r18                                      ENUMERATED {sym1, sym2, sym4, sym8}                      OPTIONAL,
        scs-60kHz-r18                                      ENUMERATED {sym2, sym4, sym8, sym16}                     OPTIONAL,
        scs-120kHz-r18                                      ENUMERATED {sym4, sym8, sym16, sym32}                   OPTIONAL,
        scs-480kHz-r18                                      ENUMERATED {sym16, sym32, sym64, sym128}                OPTIONAL,
        scs-960kHz-r18                                      ENUMERATED {sym32, sym64, sym128, sym256}               OPTIONAL
    }                                                                                                               OPTIONAL
}

SubSlot-Config-r16 ::=                  SEQUENCE {
    sub-SlotConfig-NCP-r16                  ENUMERATED {n4,n5,n6,n7}              OPTIONAL,
    sub-SlotConfig-ECP-r16                  ENUMERATED {n4,n5,n6}                 OPTIONAL
}

SRS-AllPosResources-r16 ::=               SEQUENCE {
    srs-PosResources-r16                      SRS-PosResources-r16,
    srs-PosResourceAP-r16                     SRS-PosResourceAP-r16                OPTIONAL,
    srs-PosResourceSP-r16                     SRS-PosResourceSP-r16                OPTIONAL
}

SRS-PosResources-r16 ::=                       SEQUENCE {
    maxNumberSRS-PosResourceSetPerBWP-r16                ENUMERATED {n1, n2, n4, n8, n12, n16},
    maxNumberSRS-PosResourcesPerBWP-r16                  ENUMERATED {n1, n2, n4, n8, n16, n32, n64},
    maxNumberSRS-ResourcesPerBWP-PerSlot-r16             ENUMERATED {n1, n2, n3, n4, n5, n6, n8, n10, n12, n14},
    maxNumberPeriodicSRS-PosResourcesPerBWP-r16          ENUMERATED {n1, n2, n4, n8, n16, n32, n64},
    maxNumberPeriodicSRS-PosResourcesPerBWP-PerSlot-r16  ENUMERATED {n1, n2, n3, n4, n5, n6, n8, n10, n12, n14}
}

SRS-PosResourceAP-r16 ::=                SEQUENCE {
    maxNumberAP-SRS-PosResourcesPerBWP-r16         ENUMERATED {n1, n2, n4, n8, n16, n32, n64},
    maxNumberAP-SRS-PosResourcesPerBWP-PerSlot-r16 ENUMERATED {n1, n2, n3, n4, n5, n6, n8, n10, n12, n14}
}

SRS-PosResourceSP-r16 ::=                       SEQUENCE {
    maxNumberSP-SRS-PosResourcesPerBWP-r16               ENUMERATED {n1, n2, n4, n8, n16, n32, n64},
    maxNumberSP-SRS-PosResourcesPerBWP-PerSlot-r16       ENUMERATED {n1, n2, n3, n4, n5, n6, n8, n10, n12, n14}
}

SRS-Resources ::=                           SEQUENCE {
    maxNumberAperiodicSRS-PerBWP                ENUMERATED {n1, n2, n4, n8, n16},
    maxNumberAperiodicSRS-PerBWP-PerSlot        INTEGER (1..6),
    maxNumberPeriodicSRS-PerBWP                 ENUMERATED {n1, n2, n4, n8, n16},
    maxNumberPeriodicSRS-PerBWP-PerSlot         INTEGER (1..6),
    maxNumberSemiPersistentSRS-PerBWP           ENUMERATED {n1, n2, n4, n8, n16},
    maxNumberSemiPersistentSRS-PerBWP-PerSlot   INTEGER (1..6),
    maxNumberSRS-Ports-PerResource              ENUMERATED {n1, n2, n4}
}

DummyF ::=                                  SEQUENCE {
    maxNumberPeriodicCSI-ReportPerBWP           INTEGER (1..4),
    maxNumberAperiodicCSI-ReportPerBWP          INTEGER (1..4),
    maxNumberSemiPersistentCSI-ReportPerBWP     INTEGER (0..4),
    simultaneousCSI-ReportsAllCC                INTEGER (5..32)
}

PosSRS-BWA-RRC-Connected-r18 ::=                  SEQUENCE {
    numOfCarriersIntraBandContiguous-r18              ENUMERATED {two, three, twoandthree},
    maximumAggregatedBW-TwoCarriersFR1-r18            ENUMERATED {mhz20, mhz40, mhz50, mhz80, mhz100,
                                                                  mhz160, mhz180, mhz190, mhz200}                  OPTIONAL,
    maximumAggregatedBW-TwoCarriersFR2-r18            ENUMERATED {mhz50, mhz100, mhz200, mhz400, mhz600, mhz800}   OPTIONAL,
    maximumAggregatedBW-ThreeCarriersFR1-r18          ENUMERATED {mhz80, mhz100, mhz160, mhz200, mhz240, mhz300}   OPTIONAL,
    maximumAggregatedBW-ThreeCarriersFR2-r18          ENUMERATED {mhz50, mhz100, mhz200, mhz300, mhz400,
                                                                  mhz600, mhz800, mhz1000, mhz1200}
                OPTIONAL,
    maximumAggregatedResourceSet-r18                  ENUMERATED {n1, n2, n4, n8, n12, n16},
    maximumAggregatedResourcePeriodic-r18             ENUMERATED {n1, n2, n4, n8, n16, n32, n64},
    maximumAggregatedResourceAperiodic-r18            ENUMERATED {n0, n1, n2, n4, n8, n16, n32, n64},
    maximumAggregatedResourceSemi-r18                 ENUMERATED {n0, n1, n2, n4, n8, n16, n32, n64},
    maximumAggregatedResourcePeriodicPerSlot-r18      ENUMERATED {n1, n2, n3, n4, n5, n6, n8, n10, n12, n14},
    maximumAggregatedResourceAperiodicPerSlot-r18     ENUMERATED {n0, n1, n2, n3, n4, n5, n6, n8, n10, n12, n14},
    maximumAggregatedResourceSemiPerSlot-r18          ENUMERATED {n0, n1, n2, n3, n4, n5, n6, n8, n10, n12, n14},
    ...
}

PosSRS-BWA-IndependentCA-RRC-Connected-r18 ::=    SEQUENCE {
    numOfCarriersIntraBandContiguous-r18              ENUMERATED {two, three, twoandthree},
    maximumAggregatedBW-TwoCarriersFR1-r18            ENUMERATED {mhz20, mhz40, mhz50, mhz80, mhz100,
                                                                  mhz160, mhz180, mhz190, mhz200}                     OPTIONAL,
    maximumAggregatedBW-TwoCarriersFR2-r18            ENUMERATED {mhz50, mhz100, mhz200, mhz400, mhz600, mhz800}      OPTIONAL,
    maximumAggregatedBW-ThreeCarriersFR1-r18          ENUMERATED {mhz80, mhz100, mhz160, mhz200, mhz240, mhz300}      OPTIONAL,
    maximumAggregatedBW-ThreeCarriersFR2-r18          ENUMERATED {mhz50, mhz100, mhz200, mhz300, mhz400,
                                                                  mhz600, mhz800, mhz1000, mhz1200}
                   OPTIONAL,
    maximumAggregatedResourceSet-r18                  ENUMERATED {n1, n2, n4, n8, n12, n16},
    maximumAggregatedResourcePeriodic-r18             ENUMERATED {n1, n2, n4, n8, n16, n32, n64},
    maximumAggregatedResourceAperiodic-r18            ENUMERATED {n0, n1, n2, n4, n8, n16, n32, n64},
    maximumAggregatedResourceSemi-r18                 ENUMERATED {n0, n1, n2, n4, n8, n16, n32, n64},
    maximumAggregatedResourcePeriodicPerSlot-r18      ENUMERATED {n1, n2, n3, n4, n5, n6, n8, n10, n12, n14},
    maximumAggregatedResourceAperiodicPerSlot-r18     ENUMERATED {n0, n1, n2, n3, n4, n5, n6, n8, n10, n12, n14},
    maximumAggregatedResourceSemiPerSlot-r18          ENUMERATED {n0, n1, n2, n3, n4, n5, n6, n8, n10, n12, n14},
    guardPeriod-r18                                   ENUMERATED {n0, n30, n100, n140, n200},
    powerClassForTwoAggregatedCarriers-r18            ENUMERATED {pc2, pc3}                                           OPTIONAL,
    powerClassForThreeAggregatedCarriers-r18          ENUMERATED {pc2, pc3}                                           OPTIONAL,
    ...
}

-- TAG-FEATURESETUPLINK-STOP
-- ASN1STOP



–	FeatureSetUplinkId
The IE FeatureSetUplinkId identifies an uplink feature set. The FeatureSetUplinkId of a FeatureSetUplink is the index position of the FeatureSetUplink in the featureSetsUplink list in the FeatureSets IE. The first element in the list is referred to by FeatureSetUplinkId = 1, and so on. The FeatureSetUplinkId =0 is not used by an actual FeatureSetUplink but means that the UE does not support a carrier in this band of a band combination.
FeatureSetUplinkId information element
-- ASN1START
-- TAG-FEATURESETUPLINKID-START

FeatureSetUplinkId ::=                  INTEGER (0..maxUplinkFeatureSets)

-- TAG-FEATURESETUPLINKID-STOP
-- ASN1STOP

–	FeatureSetUplinkPerCC
The IE FeatureSetUplinkPerCC indicates a set of features that the UE supports on the corresponding carrier of one band entry of a band combination.
FeatureSetUplinkPerCC information element
-- ASN1START
-- TAG-FEATURESETUPLINKPERCC-START

FeatureSetUplinkPerCC ::=               SEQUENCE {
    supportedSubcarrierSpacingUL            SubcarrierSpacing,
    supportedBandwidthUL                    SupportedBandwidth,
    channelBW-90mhz                         ENUMERATED {supported}                      OPTIONAL,
    mimo-CB-PUSCH                           SEQUENCE {
        maxNumberMIMO-LayersCB-PUSCH            MIMO-LayersUL                               OPTIONAL,
        maxNumberSRS-ResourcePerSet             INTEGER (1..2)
    }                                                                                   OPTIONAL,
    maxNumberMIMO-LayersNonCB-PUSCH         MIMO-LayersUL                               OPTIONAL,
    supportedModulationOrderUL              ModulationOrder                             OPTIONAL
}
FeatureSetUplinkPerCC-v1540 ::=       SEQUENCE {
    mimo-NonCB-PUSCH                      SEQUENCE {
        maxNumberSRS-ResourcePerSet           INTEGER (1..4),
        maxNumberSimultaneousSRS-ResourceTx   INTEGER (1..4)
    } OPTIONAL
}

FeatureSetUplinkPerCC-v1700 ::=   SEQUENCE {
    supportedMinBandwidthUL-r17       SupportedBandwidth-v1700                          OPTIONAL,
    -- R1 23-3-1-3	FeMIMO: Multi-TRP PUSCH repetition (type B) - non-codebook based
    mTRP-PUSCH-RepetitionTypeB-r17    ENUMERATED {n1,n2,n3,n4}                          OPTIONAL,
    -- R1 23-3-1-1 -codebook based Multi-TRP PUSCH repetition (type B)
    mTRP-PUSCH-TypeB-CB-r17           ENUMERATED {n1,n2,n4}                             OPTIONAL,
    supportedBandwidthUL-v1710        SupportedBandwidth-v1700                          OPTIONAL
}

FeatureSetUplinkPerCC-v1780 ::=   SEQUENCE {
    supportedBandwidthUL-v1780        SupportedBandwidth-v1700                          OPTIONAL
}

FeatureSetUplinkPerCC-v1800 ::=   SEQUENCE {
    -- R1 40-2-7: Two TAs for multi-DCI STxMP PUSCH+PUSCH
    twoPUSCH-MultiDCI-STx2P-TwoTA-r18      ENUMERATED {supported}                       OPTIONAL,
    -- R1 40-6-1: Single-DCI based STx2P SDM scheme for PUSCH-codebook
    pusch-CB-SingleDCI-STx2P-SDM-r18       SEQUENCE {
         maxNumberSRS-ResourcePerSet-r18             ENUMERATED {n1,n2,n4},
         maxNumberLayerPerPanel-r18                  INTEGER (1..2),
         maxNumberNZP-PUSCH-PortsPerSet-r18          ENUMERATED {n1,n2,n4},
         maxNumberSRS-AntennaPortsPerSet-r18         ENUMERATED {n1,n2,n4}
    }                                                                                   OPTIONAL,
    -- R1 40-6-1a: Single-DCI based STx2P SDM scheme for PUSCH-noncodebook
    pusch-NonCB-SingleDCI-STx2P-SDM-r18    SEQUENCE {
         maxNumberSRS-ResourcePerSet-r18             INTEGER (1..4),
         maxNumberLayerPerPanel-r18                  INTEGER (1..2),
         maxNumberSimulSRS-OneResourcePerSet-r18     INTEGER (1..4),
         maxNumberSimulSRS-TwoResourcePerSet-r18     INTEGER (1..8)
    }                                                                                   OPTIONAL,
    -- R1 40-6-2: Single-DCI based STx2P SFN scheme for PUSCH-codebook
    pusch-CB-SingleDCI-STx2P-SFN-r18       SEQUENCE {
         maxNumberSRS-ResourcePerSet-r18             ENUMERATED {n1,n2,n4},
         maxNumberLayerPerSet-r18                    INTEGER (1..2),
         maxNumberSRS-AntennaPortsPerSet-r18         ENUMERATED {n1,n2,n4},
         maxNumberNZP-PUSCH-PortsPerSet-r18          ENUMERATED {n1,n2,n4}
    }                                                                                   OPTIONAL,
    -- R1 40-6-2a: Single-DCI based STx2P SFN scheme for PUSCH-noncodebook
    pusch-NonCB-SingleDCI-STx2P-SFN-r18    SEQUENCE {
         maxNumberSRS-ResourcePerSet-r18             INTEGER (1..4),
         maxNumberLayerPerSet-r18                    INTEGER (1..2),
         maxNumberSimulSRS-OneResourcePerSet-r18     INTEGER (1..4),
         maxNumberSimulSRS-TwoResourcePerSet-r18     INTEGER (1..8)
    }                                                                                   OPTIONAL,
    -- R1 40-6-3a: codebook multi-DCI based STx2P PUSCH+PUSCH for DG+DG
    twoPUSCH-CB-MultiDCI-STx2P-DG-DG-r18   SEQUENCE {
         maxNumberSRS-ResourcePerSet-r18             ENUMERATED {n1, n2, n4},
         maxNumberLayerOverlapping-r18               INTEGER (1..2),
         maxNumberNZP-PUSCH-Overlapping-r18          ENUMERATED {n1, n2, n4},
         maxNumberPUSCH-PerCORESET-PerSlot-r18       SEQUENCE {
              scs-60kHz-r18                             ENUMERATED {n1,n2,n3,n4,n7}     OPTIONAL,
              scs-120kHz-r18                            ENUMERATED {n1,n2,n3,n4,n7}     OPTIONAL
         }                                                                              OPTIONAL,
         maxNumberTotalLayerOverlapping-r18          INTEGER (2..4),
         maxNumberSRS-AntennaPortsPerSet-r18         ENUMERATED {n1,n2,n4}
    }                                                                                   OPTIONAL,
    -- R1 40-6-3b: Noncodebook multi-DCI based STx2P PUSCH+PUSCH for DG+DG
    twoPUSCH-NonCB-MultiDCI-STx2P-DG-DG-r18    SEQUENCE {
         maxNumberSRS-ResourcePerSet-r18             INTEGER (1..4),
         maxNumberLayerOverlapping-r18               INTEGER (1..2),
         maxNumberSimulSRS-ResourcePerSet-r18        INTEGER (1..4),
         maxNumberPUSCH-PerCORESET-PerSlot-r18       SEQUENCE {
              scs-60kHz-r18                             ENUMERATED {n1,n2,n3,n4,n7}     OPTIONAL,
              scs-120kHz-r18                            ENUMERATED {n1,n2,n3,n4,n7}     OPTIONAL
         }                                                                              OPTIONAL,
         maxNumberTotalLayerOverlapping-r18          INTEGER (2..4)
    }                                                                                   OPTIONAL,
    -- R1 40-6-6: Out-of-order operation for multi-DCI based STx2P PUSCH+PUSCH
    twoPUSCH-MultiDCI-STx2P-OutOfOrder-r18           ENUMERATED {supported}             OPTIONAL,

    codebookParameter8TxPUSCH-r18        SEQUENCE {
        -- R1 40-7-1: Basic features for Codebook-based 8Tx PUSCH
        codebook-8TxBasic-r18                        SEQUENCE {
            maxNumberPUSCH-MIMO-Layer-r18                INTEGER (1..8),
            maxNumberSRS-Resource-r18                    INTEGER (1..2),
            srs-8TxPorts-r18                             ENUMERATED {noTDM, both}
        },
        -- R1 40-7-1a: Codebook-based 8Tx PUSCH-codebook1
        codebook1-8TxPUSCH-r18               SEQUENCE {
            codebookN1N4-r18                     ENUMERATED {ng1n4n1,ng1n2n2,both}      OPTIONAL,
            srs-8TxPorts-r18                     ENUMERATED {noTDM, both}
        },
        -- R1 40-7-1b: Codebook-based 8Tx PUSCH-codebook2
        codebook2-8TxPUSCH-r18                   ENUMERATED {supported}                 OPTIONAL,
        -- R1 40-7-1c: Codebook-based 8Tx PUSCH-codebook3
        codebook3-8TxPUSCH-r18                   ENUMERATED {supported}                 OPTIONAL,
        -- R1 40-7-1d: Codebook-based 8Tx PUSCH-codebook4
        codebook4-8TxPUSCH-r18                   ENUMERATED {supported}                 OPTIONAL,
        -- R1 40-7-1e: UL full power transmission mode 0
        ul-FullPwrTransMode0-r18             ENUMERATED {supported}                     OPTIONAL,
        -- R1 40-7-1f: UL full power transmission mode 1
        ul-FullPwrTransMode1-r18             ENUMERATED {supported}                     OPTIONAL,
        -- R1 40-7-1g: UL full power transmission mode 2 with 1/2/4 resources
        ul-FullPwrTransMode2-r18             ENUMERATED {n1,n2,n4}                      OPTIONAL,
        -- R1 40-7-1g-1: SRS resources for UL full power transmission mode 2
         ul-SRS-TransMode2-r18               BIT STRING (SIZE(3))                       OPTIONAL,
        -- R1 40-7-1g-2: TPMI group(s) which delivers full power for codebook2
        tpmi-FullPwrCodebook2-r18            ENUMERATED {first, second}                 OPTIONAL
    }                                                                                   OPTIONAL,
    -- R1 40-7-2: Basic features for Non-Codebook-based 8Tx PUSCH
    nonCodebook-8TxPUSCH-r18             SEQUENCE {
        maxNumberPUSCH-MIMO-Layer-r18        INTEGER (1..8),
        maxNumberSRS-Resource-r18            INTEGER (1..8),
        maxNumberSimultaneousSRS-r18         INTEGER (1..8)
    }                                                                                   OPTIONAL,
    -- R1 40-7-2a: Association between CSI-RS and SRS for non-codebook case
    nonCodebook-CSI-RS-SRS-r18           ENUMERATED {supported}                            OPTIONAL,
    -- R1 40-7-3: CBG based 2 CWs PUSCH with rank >4
    cgb-2CW-PUSCH-r18                    ENUMERATED {supported}                         OPTIONAL
}

FeatureSetUplinkPerCC-v1840 ::=          SEQUENCE {
    supportedBandwidthUL-v1840               SupportedBandwidth-v1840                   OPTIONAL,
    supportedMinBandwidthUL-v1840            SupportedBandwidth-v1840                   OPTIONAL
}

FeatureSetUplinkPerCC-v1850 ::=          SEQUENCE {
    -- R1 40-6-3a-1: UE STxMP processing capability for codebook
    twoPUSCH-CB-MultiDCI-STx2P-AdditionalTime-r18        CHOICE {
        scs-60kHz-r18               ENUMERATED {sym1, sym4, sym8, sym16},
        scs-120kHz-r18              ENUMERATED {sym4, sym8, sym16, sym32},
        scs-480kHz-r18              ENUMERATED {sym16, sym32, sym64, sym128},
        scs-960kHz-r18              ENUMERATED {sym32, sym64, sym128,sym256}
    }                                                                                   OPTIONAL,
    -- R1 40-6-3b-2: UE STxMP processing capability for non-codebook
    twoPUSCH-NonCB-MultiDCI-STx2P-AdditionalTime-r18        CHOICE {
        scs-60kHz-r18               ENUMERATED {sym1, sym4, sym8, sym16},
        scs-120kHz-r18              ENUMERATED {sym4, sym8, sym16, sym32},
        scs-480kHz-r18              ENUMERATED {sym16, sym32, sym64, sym128},
        scs-960kHz-r18              ENUMERATED {sym32, sym64, sym128,sym256}
    }                                                                                   OPTIONAL
}

-- TAG-FEATURESETUPLINKPERCC-STOP
-- ASN1STOP

–	FeatureSetUplinkPerCC-Id
The IE FeatureSetUplinkPerCC-Id identifies a set of features applicable to one carrier of a feature set. The FeatureSetUplinkPerCC-Id of a FeatureSetUplinkPerCC is the index position of the FeatureSetUplinkPerCC in the featureSetsUplinkPerCC. The first element in the list is referred to by FeatureSetUplinkPerCC-Id = 1, and so on.
FeatureSetUplinkPerCC-Id information element
-- ASN1START
-- TAG-FEATURESETUPLINKPERCC-ID-START

FeatureSetUplinkPerCC-Id ::=            INTEGER (1..maxPerCC-FeatureSets)

-- TAG-FEATURESETUPLINKPERCC-ID-STOP
-- ASN1STOP

–	FreqBandIndicatorEUTRA
-- ASN1START
-- TAG-FREQBANDINDICATOREUTRA-START

FreqBandIndicatorEUTRA ::=  INTEGER (1..maxBandsEUTRA)

-- TAG-FREQBANDINDICATOREUTRA-STOP
-- ASN1STOP

–	FreqBandList
The IE FreqBandList is used by the network to request NR CA, NR non-CA and/or MR-DC band combinations for specific NR and/or E-UTRA frequency bands and/or up to a specific number of carriers and/or up to specific aggregated bandwidth. This is also used to request feature sets (for NR) and feature set combinations (for NR and MR-DC). For NR sidelink communication, this is used by the initiating UE to request sidelink UE radio access capabilities from the peer UE. This is also used to request lower MSD capability for specific NR frequency bands for the UE supporting lower MSD.
FreqBandList information element
-- ASN1START
-- TAG-FREQBANDLIST-START

FreqBandList ::=                SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxBandsMRDC)) OF FreqBandInformation

FreqBandInformation ::=         CHOICE {
    bandInformationEUTRA            FreqBandInformationEUTRA,
    bandInformationNR               FreqBandInformationNR
}

FreqBandInformationEUTRA ::=    SEQUENCE {
    bandEUTRA                       FreqBandIndicatorEUTRA,
    ca-BandwidthClassDL-EUTRA       CA-BandwidthClassEUTRA                  OPTIONAL,   -- Need N
    ca-BandwidthClassUL-EUTRA       CA-BandwidthClassEUTRA                  OPTIONAL    -- Need N
}

FreqBandInformationNR ::=       SEQUENCE {
    bandNR                          FreqBandIndicatorNR,
    maxBandwidthRequestedDL         AggregatedBandwidth                     OPTIONAL,   -- Need N
    maxBandwidthRequestedUL         AggregatedBandwidth                     OPTIONAL,   -- Need N
    maxCarriersRequestedDL          INTEGER (1..maxNrofServingCells)        OPTIONAL,   -- Need N
    maxCarriersRequestedUL          INTEGER (1..maxNrofServingCells)        OPTIONAL    -- Need N
}

AggregatedBandwidth ::=         ENUMERATED {mhz50, mhz100, mhz150, mhz200, mhz250, mhz300, mhz350,
                                            mhz400, mhz450, mhz500, mhz550, mhz600, mhz650, mhz700, mhz750, mhz800}

-- TAG-FREQBANDLIST-STOP
-- ASN1STOP

–	FreqSeparationClass
The IE FreqSeparationClass is used for an intra-band non-contiguous CA band combination to indicate frequency separation between lower edge of lowest CC and upper edge of highest CC in a frequency band.
FreqSeparationClass information element
-- ASN1START
-- TAG-FREQSEPARATIONCLASS-START

FreqSeparationClass ::= ENUMERATED { mhz800, mhz1200, mhz1400, ..., mhz400-v1650, mhz600-v1650}

FreqSeparationClassDL-v1620 ::= ENUMERATED {mhz1000, mhz1600, mhz1800, mhz2000, mhz2200, mhz2400}

FreqSeparationClassUL-v1620 ::= ENUMERATED {mhz1000}

-- TAG-FREQSEPARATIONCLASS-STOP
-- ASN1STOP

–	FreqSeparationClassDL-Only
The IE FreqSeparationClassDL-Only is used to indicate the frequency separation between lower edge of lowest CC and upper edge of highest CC of DL only frequency spectrum in a frequency band.
FreqSeparationClassDL-Only information element
-- ASN1START
-- TAG-FREQSEPARATIONCLASSDL-Only-START

FreqSeparationClassDL-Only-r16 ::= ENUMERATED {mhz200, mhz400, mhz600, mhz800, mhz1000, mhz1200}

-- TAG-FREQSEPARATIONCLASSDL-Only-STOP
-- ASN1STOP

–	FR2-2-AccessParamsPerBand
The IE FR2-2-AccessParamsPerBand is used to convey FR2-2 related parameters specific for a certain frequency band (not per feature set or band combination).
FR2-2-AccessParamsPerBand information element
-- ASN1START
-- TAG-FR2-2-ACCESSPARAMSPERBAND-START

FR2-2-AccessParamsPerBand-r17 ::=       SEQUENCE {
    -- R1 24-1: Basic FR2-2 DL support
    dl-FR2-2-SCS-120kHz-r17                 ENUMERATED {supported}            OPTIONAL,
    -- R1 24-1a: Basic FR2-2 UL support
    ul-FR2-2-SCS-120kHz-r17                 ENUMERATED {supported}            OPTIONAL,
    -- R1 24-2: 120KHz SSB support for initial access in FR2-2
    initialAccessSSB-120kHz-r17             ENUMERATED {supported}            OPTIONAL,
    -- R1 24-1b: Wideband PRACH for 120 kHz in FR2-2
    widebandPRACH-SCS-120kHz-r17            ENUMERATED {supported}            OPTIONAL,
    -- R1 24-1c: Multi-RB support PUCCH format 0/1/4 for 120 kHz in FR2-2
    multiRB-PUCCH-SCS-120kHz-r17            ENUMERATED {supported}            OPTIONAL,
    -- R1 24-1d: Multiple PDSCH scheduling by single DCI for 120kHz in FR2-2
    multiPDSCH-SingleDCI-FR2-2-SCS-120kHz-r17 ENUMERATED {supported}          OPTIONAL,
    -- R1 24-1e: Multiple PUSCH scheduling by single DCI for 120kHz in FR2-2
    multiPUSCH-SingleDCI-FR2-2-SCS-120kHz-r17 ENUMERATED {supported}          OPTIONAL,
    -- R1 24-4: 480KHz SCS support for DL
    dl-FR2-2-SCS-480kHz-r17                 ENUMERATED {supported}            OPTIONAL,
    -- R1 24-4a: 480KHz SCS support for UL
    ul-FR2-2-SCS-480kHz-r17                 ENUMERATED {supported}            OPTIONAL,
    -- R1 24-3: 480KHz SSB support for initial access in FR2-2
    initialAccessSSB-480kHz-r17             ENUMERATED {supported}            OPTIONAL,
    -- R1 24-4b: Wideband PRACH for 480 kHz in FR2-2
    widebandPRACH-SCS-480kHz-r17            ENUMERATED {supported}            OPTIONAL,
    -- R1 24-4c: Multi-RB support PUCCH format 0/1/4 for 480 kHz in FR2-2
    multiRB-PUCCH-SCS-480kHz-r17            ENUMERATED {supported}            OPTIONAL,
    -- R1 24-4f: Enhanced PDCCH monitoring for 480KHz in FR2-2
    enhancedPDCCH-monitoringSCS-480kHz-r17  ENUMERATED {supported}            OPTIONAL,
    -- R1 24-5: 960KHz SCS support for DL
    dl-FR2-2-SCS-960kHz-r17                 ENUMERATED {supported}            OPTIONAL,
    -- R1 24-5a: 960KHz SCS support for UL
    ul-FR2-2-SCS-960kHz-r17                 ENUMERATED {supported}            OPTIONAL,
    -- R1 24-5c: Multi-RB support PUCCH format 0/1/4 for 960 kHz in FR2-2
    multiRB-PUCCH-SCS-960kHz-r17            ENUMERATED {supported}            OPTIONAL,
    -- R1 24-5f: Enhanced PDCCH monitoring for 960KHz in FR2-2
    enhancedPDCCH-monitoringSCS-960kHz-r17  SEQUENCE {
        pdcch-monitoring4-1-r17                 ENUMERATED {supported}        OPTIONAL,
        pdcch-monitoring4-2-r17                 ENUMERATED {supported}        OPTIONAL,
        pdcch-monitoring8-4-r17                 ENUMERATED {supported}        OPTIONAL
    }                                                                         OPTIONAL,
    -- R1 24-6: Type 1 channel access procedure in uplink for FR2-2 with shared spectrum channel access
    type1-ChannelAccess-FR2-2-r17           ENUMERATED {supported}            OPTIONAL,
    -- R1 24-7: Type 2 channel access procedure in uplink for FR2-2 with shared spectrum channel access
    type2-ChannelAccess-FR2-2-r17           ENUMERATED {supported}            OPTIONAL,
    -- R1 24-10: Reduced beam switching time delay
    reduced-BeamSwitchTiming-FR2-2-r17      ENUMERATED {supported}            OPTIONAL,
    -- R1 24-8: 32 DL HARQ processes for FR 2-2
    support32-DL-HARQ-ProcessPerSCS-r17     SEQUENCE {
        scs-120kHz-r17                          ENUMERATED {supported}        OPTIONAL,
        scs-480kHz-r17                          ENUMERATED {supported}        OPTIONAL,
        scs-960kHz-r17                          ENUMERATED {supported}        OPTIONAL
    }                                                                         OPTIONAL,
    -- R1 24-9: 32 UL HARQ processes for FR 2-2
    support32-UL-HARQ-ProcessPerSCS-r17		SEQUENCE {
        scs-120kHz-r17                          ENUMERATED {supported}        OPTIONAL,
        scs-480kHz-r17                          ENUMERATED {supported}        OPTIONAL,
        scs-960kHz-r17                          ENUMERATED {supported}        OPTIONAL
    }                                                                         OPTIONAL,
    ...,
    [[
    -- R4 15-1: 64QAM for PUSCH for FR2-2
    modulation64-QAM-PUSCH-FR2-2-r17            ENUMERATED {supported}        OPTIONAL
    ]]
}

-- TAG-FR2-2-ACCESSPARAMSPERBAND-STOP
-- ASN1STOP

–	HighSpeedParameters
The IE HighSpeedParameters is used to convey capabilities related to high speed scenarios.
HighSpeedParameters information element
-- ASN1START
-- TAG-HIGHSPEEDPARAMETERS-START

HighSpeedParameters-r16 ::= SEQUENCE {
    measurementEnhancement-r16       ENUMERATED {supported}   OPTIONAL,
    demodulationEnhancement-r16      ENUMERATED {supported}   OPTIONAL
}

HighSpeedParameters-v1650 ::= CHOICE {
    intraNR-MeasurementEnhancement-r16       ENUMERATED {supported},
    interRAT-MeasurementEnhancement-r16      ENUMERATED {supported}
}

HighSpeedParameters-v1700 ::= SEQUENCE {
    -- R4 18-1: Enhanced RRM requirements specified for CA for FR1 HST
    measurementEnhancementCA-r17            ENUMERATED {supported}   OPTIONAL,
    -- R4 18-2: Enhanced RRM requirements specified for inter-frequency measurement in connected mode for FR1 HST
    measurementEnhancementInterFreq-r17     ENUMERATED {supported}   OPTIONAL
}

-- TAG-HIGHSPEEDPARAMETERS-STOP
-- ASN1STOP

–	IMS-Parameters
The IE IMS-Parameters is used to convey capabilities related to IMS.
IMS-Parameters information element
-- ASN1START
-- TAG-IMS-PARAMETERS-START

IMS-Parameters ::=         SEQUENCE {
    ims-ParametersCommon       IMS-ParametersCommon                  OPTIONAL,
    ims-ParametersFRX-Diff     IMS-ParametersFRX-Diff                OPTIONAL,
    ...
}

IMS-Parameters-v1700 ::=   SEQUENCE {
    ims-ParametersFR2-2-r17    IMS-ParametersFR2-2-r17               OPTIONAL
}

IMS-ParametersCommon ::=   SEQUENCE {
    voiceOverEUTRA-5GC                  ENUMERATED {supported}                OPTIONAL,
    ...,
    [[
    voiceOverSCG-BearerEUTRA-5GC        ENUMERATED {supported}                OPTIONAL
    ]],
    [[
    voiceFallbackIndicationEPS-r16       ENUMERATED {supported}                   OPTIONAL
    ]]
}

IMS-ParametersFRX-Diff ::= SEQUENCE {
    voiceOverNR                ENUMERATED {supported}                OPTIONAL,
    ...
}

IMS-ParametersFR2-2-r17 ::= SEQUENCE {
    voiceOverNR-r17             ENUMERATED {supported}               OPTIONAL,
    ...
}

-- TAG-IMS-PARAMETERS-STOP
-- ASN1STOP

–	InterRAT-Parameters
The IE InterRAT-Parameters is used convey UE capabilities related to the other RATs.
InterRAT-Parameters information element
-- ASN1START
-- TAG-INTERRAT-PARAMETERS-START

InterRAT-Parameters ::=             SEQUENCE {
    eutra                               EUTRA-Parameters                OPTIONAL,
    ...,
    [[
    utra-FDD-r16                        UTRA-FDD-Parameters-r16         OPTIONAL
    ]]

}

EUTRA-Parameters ::=                SEQUENCE {
    supportedBandListEUTRA          SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxBandsEUTRA)) OF FreqBandIndicatorEUTRA,
    eutra-ParametersCommon              EUTRA-ParametersCommon                                      OPTIONAL,
    eutra-ParametersXDD-Diff            EUTRA-ParametersXDD-Diff                                    OPTIONAL,
    ...
}

EUTRA-ParametersCommon ::=      SEQUENCE {
    mfbi-EUTRA                          ENUMERATED {supported}          OPTIONAL,
    modifiedMPR-BehaviorEUTRA           BIT STRING (SIZE (32))          OPTIONAL,
    multiNS-Pmax-EUTRA                  ENUMERATED {supported}          OPTIONAL,
    rs-SINR-MeasEUTRA                   ENUMERATED {supported}          OPTIONAL,
    ...,
    [[
    ne-DC                               ENUMERATED {supported}          OPTIONAL
    ]],
    [[
    nr-HO-ToEN-DC-r16                   ENUMERATED {supported}          OPTIONAL
    ]]
}

EUTRA-ParametersXDD-Diff ::=        SEQUENCE {
    rsrqMeasWidebandEUTRA               ENUMERATED {supported}          OPTIONAL,
    ...
}

UTRA-FDD-Parameters-r16 ::=                SEQUENCE {
    supportedBandListUTRA-FDD-r16              SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxBandsUTRA-FDD-r16)) OF SupportedBandUTRA-FDD-r16,
    ...
}

SupportedBandUTRA-FDD-r16 ::=           ENUMERATED {
                                            bandI, bandII, bandIII, bandIV, bandV, bandVI,
                                            bandVII, bandVIII, bandIX, bandX, bandXI,
                                            bandXII, bandXIII, bandXIV, bandXV, bandXVI,
                                            bandXVII, bandXVIII, bandXIX, bandXX,
                                            bandXXI, bandXXII, bandXXIII, bandXXIV,
                                            bandXXV, bandXXVI, bandXXVII, bandXXVIII,
                                            bandXXIX, bandXXX, bandXXXI, bandXXXII}

-- TAG-INTERRAT-PARAMETERS-STOP
-- ASN1STOP

–	MAC-Parameters
The IE MAC-Parameters is used to convey capabilities related to MAC.
MAC-Parameters information element
-- ASN1START
-- TAG-MAC-PARAMETERS-START

MAC-Parameters ::= SEQUENCE {
    mac-ParametersCommon            MAC-ParametersCommon        OPTIONAL,
    mac-ParametersXDD-Diff          MAC-ParametersXDD-Diff      OPTIONAL
}

MAC-Parameters-v1610 ::= SEQUENCE {
    mac-ParametersFRX-Diff-r16      MAC-ParametersFRX-Diff-r16  OPTIONAL
}

MAC-Parameters-v1700 ::= SEQUENCE {
    mac-ParametersFR2-2-r17         MAC-ParametersFR2-2-r17     OPTIONAL
}

MAC-Parameters-v17b0 ::= SEQUENCE {
    mTRP-PUSCH-PHR-Type1-Reporting-r17      ENUMERATED {supported}      OPTIONAL
}

MAC-Parameters-v17c0 ::= SEQUENCE {
    directSCellActivationWithTCI-r17        ENUMERATED {supported}      OPTIONAL
}

MAC-ParametersCommon ::=    SEQUENCE {
    lcp-Restriction                         ENUMERATED {supported}      OPTIONAL,
    dummy                                   ENUMERATED {supported}      OPTIONAL,
    lch-ToSCellRestriction                  ENUMERATED {supported}      OPTIONAL,
    ...,
    [[
    recommendedBitRate                      ENUMERATED {supported}      OPTIONAL,
    recommendedBitRateQuery                 ENUMERATED {supported}      OPTIONAL
    ]],
    [[
    recommendedBitRateMultiplier-r16         ENUMERATED {supported}     OPTIONAL,
    preEmptiveBSR-r16                        ENUMERATED {supported}     OPTIONAL,
    autonomousTransmission-r16               ENUMERATED {supported}     OPTIONAL,
    lch-PriorityBasedPrioritization-r16      ENUMERATED {supported}     OPTIONAL,
    lch-ToConfiguredGrantMapping-r16         ENUMERATED {supported}     OPTIONAL,
    lch-ToGrantPriorityRestriction-r16       ENUMERATED {supported}     OPTIONAL,
    singlePHR-P-r16                          ENUMERATED {supported}     OPTIONAL,
    ul-LBT-FailureDetectionRecovery-r16      ENUMERATED {supported}     OPTIONAL,
    -- R4 8-1: MPE
    tdd-MPE-P-MPR-Reporting-r16              ENUMERATED {supported}     OPTIONAL,
    lcid-ExtensionIAB-r16                    ENUMERATED {supported}     OPTIONAL
    ]],
    [[
    spCell-BFR-CBRA-r16                      ENUMERATED {supported}     OPTIONAL
    ]],
    [[
    srs-ResourceId-Ext-r16                   ENUMERATED {supported}     OPTIONAL
    ]],
    [[
    enhancedUuDRX-forSidelink-r17            ENUMERATED {supported}     OPTIONAL,
    --27-10: Support of UL MAC CE based MG activation request for PRS measurements
    mg-ActivationRequestPRS-Meas-r17         ENUMERATED {supported}     OPTIONAL,
    --27-11: Support of DL MAC CE based MG activation request for PRS measurements
    mg-ActivationCommPRS-Meas-r17            ENUMERATED {supported}     OPTIONAL,
    intraCG-Prioritization-r17               ENUMERATED {supported}     OPTIONAL,
    jointPrioritizationCG-Retx-Timer-r17     ENUMERATED {supported}     OPTIONAL,
    survivalTime-r17                         ENUMERATED {supported}     OPTIONAL,
    lcg-ExtensionIAB-r17                     ENUMERATED {supported}     OPTIONAL,
    harq-FeedbackDisabled-r17                ENUMERATED {supported}     OPTIONAL,
    uplink-Harq-ModeB-r17                    ENUMERATED {supported}     OPTIONAL,
    sr-TriggeredBy-TA-Report-r17             ENUMERATED {supported}     OPTIONAL,
    extendedDRX-CycleInactive-r17            ENUMERATED {supported}     OPTIONAL,
    simultaneousSR-PUSCH-DiffPUCCH-groups-r17 ENUMERATED {supported}    OPTIONAL,
    lastTransmissionUL-r17                   ENUMERATED {supported}     OPTIONAL
    ]],
    [[
    harq-RTT-TimerDL-ForNTN-MulticastMBS-r17 ENUMERATED {supported}     OPTIONAL
    ]],
    [[
    sr-TriggeredByTA-ReportATG-r18           ENUMERATED {supported}     OPTIONAL,
    extendedDRX-CycleInactive-r18            ENUMERATED {supported}     OPTIONAL,
    additionalBS-Table-r18                   ENUMERATED {supported}     OPTIONAL,
    delayStatusReport-r18                    ENUMERATED {supported}     OPTIONAL,
    cg-RetransmissionMonitoringDisabling-r18 ENUMERATED {supported}     OPTIONAL,
    non-IntegerDRX-r18                       ENUMERATED {supported}     OPTIONAL
    ]]
}

MAC-ParametersFRX-Diff-r16 ::=  SEQUENCE {
    directMCG-SCellActivation-r16           ENUMERATED {supported}      OPTIONAL,
    directMCG-SCellActivationResume-r16     ENUMERATED {supported}      OPTIONAL,
    directSCG-SCellActivation-r16           ENUMERATED {supported}      OPTIONAL,
    directSCG-SCellActivationResume-r16     ENUMERATED {supported}      OPTIONAL,
    -- R1 19-1: DRX Adaptation
    drx-Adaptation-r16          SEQUENCE {
        non-SharedSpectrumChAccess-r16      MinTimeGap-r16              OPTIONAL,
        sharedSpectrumChAccess-r16          MinTimeGap-r16              OPTIONAL
    }                                                                   OPTIONAL,
    ...
}

MAC-ParametersFR2-2-r17 ::=  SEQUENCE {
    directMCG-SCellActivation-r17           ENUMERATED {supported}      OPTIONAL,
    directMCG-SCellActivationResume-r17     ENUMERATED {supported}      OPTIONAL,
    directSCG-SCellActivation-r17           ENUMERATED {supported}      OPTIONAL,
    directSCG-SCellActivationResume-r17     ENUMERATED {supported}      OPTIONAL,
    drx-Adaptation-r17       SEQUENCE {
        non-SharedSpectrumChAccess-r17      MinTimeGapFR2-2-r17         OPTIONAL,
        sharedSpectrumChAccess-r17          MinTimeGapFR2-2-r17         OPTIONAL
    }                                                                   OPTIONAL,
    ...
}

MAC-ParametersXDD-Diff ::=  SEQUENCE {
    skipUplinkTxDynamic                     ENUMERATED {supported}     OPTIONAL,
    logicalChannelSR-DelayTimer             ENUMERATED {supported}     OPTIONAL,
    longDRX-Cycle                           ENUMERATED {supported}     OPTIONAL,
    shortDRX-Cycle                          ENUMERATED {supported}     OPTIONAL,
    multipleSR-Configurations               ENUMERATED {supported}     OPTIONAL,
    multipleConfiguredGrants                ENUMERATED {supported}     OPTIONAL,
    ...,
    [[
    secondaryDRX-Group-r16                  ENUMERATED {supported}     OPTIONAL
    ]],
    [[
    enhancedSkipUplinkTxDynamic-r16         ENUMERATED {supported}     OPTIONAL,
    enhancedSkipUplinkTxConfigured-r16      ENUMERATED {supported}     OPTIONAL
    ]],
    [[
    dummy1                                  ENUMERATED {supported}     OPTIONAL,
    dummy2                                  ENUMERATED {supported}     OPTIONAL
    ]]
}

MinTimeGap-r16 ::=    SEQUENCE {
    scs-15kHz-r16                         ENUMERATED {sl1, sl3}        OPTIONAL,
    scs-30kHz-r16                         ENUMERATED {sl1, sl6}        OPTIONAL,
    scs-60kHz-r16                         ENUMERATED {sl1, sl12}       OPTIONAL,
    scs-120kHz-r16                        ENUMERATED {sl2, sl24}       OPTIONAL
}

MinTimeGapFR2-2-r17 ::= SEQUENCE {
    scs-120kHz-r17                        ENUMERATED {sl2, sl24}       OPTIONAL,
    scs-480kHz-r17                        ENUMERATED {sl8, sl96}       OPTIONAL,
    scs-960kHz-r17                        ENUMERATED {sl16, sl192}     OPTIONAL
}

MAC-ParametersPerBand-r18 ::=  SEQUENCE {
    ptm-Retransmission-r18                ENUMERATED {supported}       OPTIONAL,
    ptm-RetransmissionInactive-r18        ENUMERATED {supported}       OPTIONAL,
    ...
}

-- TAG-MAC-PARAMETERS-STOP
-- ASN1STOP

–	MeasAndMobParameters
The IE MeasAndMobParameters is used to convey UE capabilities related to measurements for radio resource management (RRM), radio link monitoring (RLM) and mobility (e.g. handover).
MeasAndMobParameters information element
-- ASN1START
-- TAG-MEASANDMOBPARAMETERS-START

MeasAndMobParameters ::=                    SEQUENCE {
    measAndMobParametersCommon              MeasAndMobParametersCommon              OPTIONAL,
    measAndMobParametersXDD-Diff                MeasAndMobParametersXDD-Diff        OPTIONAL,
    measAndMobParametersFRX-Diff                MeasAndMobParametersFRX-Diff        OPTIONAL
}

MeasAndMobParameters-v15t0 ::=          SEQUENCE {
    measAndMobParametersCommon-v15t0        MeasAndMobParametersCommon-v15t0        OPTIONAL
}

MeasAndMobParameters-v1700 ::=          SEQUENCE {
    measAndMobParametersFR2-2-r17           MeasAndMobParametersFR2-2-r17           OPTIONAL
}

MeasAndMobParametersCommon ::=          SEQUENCE {
    supportedGapPattern                     BIT STRING (SIZE (22))                  OPTIONAL,
    ssb-RLM                                 ENUMERATED {supported}                  OPTIONAL,
    ssb-AndCSI-RS-RLM                       ENUMERATED {supported}                  OPTIONAL,
    ...,
    [[
    eventB-MeasAndReport                    ENUMERATED {supported}                  OPTIONAL,
    handoverFDD-TDD                         ENUMERATED {supported}                  OPTIONAL,
    eutra-CGI-Reporting                     ENUMERATED {supported}                  OPTIONAL,
    nr-CGI-Reporting                        ENUMERATED {supported}                  OPTIONAL
    ]],
    [[
    independentGapConfig                    ENUMERATED {supported}                  OPTIONAL,
    periodicEUTRA-MeasAndReport             ENUMERATED {supported}                  OPTIONAL,
    handoverFR1-FR2                         ENUMERATED {supported}                  OPTIONAL,
    maxNumberCSI-RS-RRM-RS-SINR             ENUMERATED {n4, n8, n16, n32, n64, n96} OPTIONAL
    ]],
    [[
    nr-CGI-Reporting-ENDC                   ENUMERATED {supported}                  OPTIONAL
    ]],
    [[
    eutra-CGI-Reporting-NEDC                ENUMERATED {supported}                  OPTIONAL,
    eutra-CGI-Reporting-NRDC                ENUMERATED {supported}                  OPTIONAL,
    nr-CGI-Reporting-NEDC                   ENUMERATED {supported}                  OPTIONAL,
    nr-CGI-Reporting-NRDC                   ENUMERATED {supported}                  OPTIONAL
    ]],
    [[
    reportAddNeighMeasForPeriodic-r16       ENUMERATED {supported}                  OPTIONAL,
    condHandoverParametersCommon-r16        SEQUENCE {
       condHandoverFDD-TDD-r16                  ENUMERATED {supported}              OPTIONAL,
       condHandoverFR1-FR2-r16                  ENUMERATED {supported}              OPTIONAL
    }                                                                               OPTIONAL,
    nr-NeedForGap-Reporting-r16             ENUMERATED {supported}                  OPTIONAL,
    supportedGapPattern-NRonly-r16          BIT STRING (SIZE (10))                  OPTIONAL,
    supportedGapPattern-NRonly-NEDC-r16     ENUMERATED {supported}                  OPTIONAL,
    maxNumberCLI-RSSI-r16                   ENUMERATED {n8, n16, n32, n64}          OPTIONAL,
    maxNumberCLI-SRS-RSRP-r16               ENUMERATED {n4, n8, n16, n32}           OPTIONAL,
    maxNumberPerSlotCLI-SRS-RSRP-r16        ENUMERATED {n2, n4, n8}                 OPTIONAL,
    mfbi-IAB-r16                            ENUMERATED {supported}                  OPTIONAL,
    dummy                                   ENUMERATED {supported}                  OPTIONAL,
    nr-CGI-Reporting-NPN-r16                ENUMERATED {supported}                  OPTIONAL,
    idleInactiveEUTRA-MeasReport-r16        ENUMERATED {supported}                  OPTIONAL,
    idleInactive-ValidityArea-r16           ENUMERATED {supported}                  OPTIONAL,
    eutra-AutonomousGaps-r16                ENUMERATED {supported}                  OPTIONAL,
    eutra-AutonomousGaps-NEDC-r16           ENUMERATED {supported}                  OPTIONAL,
    eutra-AutonomousGaps-NRDC-r16           ENUMERATED {supported}                  OPTIONAL,
    pcellT312-r16                           ENUMERATED {supported}                  OPTIONAL,
    supportedGapPattern-r16                 BIT STRING (SIZE (2))                   OPTIONAL
    ]],
    [[
    -- R4 19-2 Concurrent measurement gaps
    concurrentMeasGap-r17                   CHOICE {
        concurrentPerUE-OnlyMeasGap-r17         ENUMERATED {supported},
        concurrentPerUE-PerFRCombMeasGap-r17    ENUMERATED {supported}
    }                                                                               OPTIONAL,
    -- R4 19-1 Network controlled small gap (NCSG)
    nr-NeedForGapNCSG-Reporting-r17         ENUMERATED {supported}                  OPTIONAL,
    eutra-NeedForGapNCSG-Reporting-r17      ENUMERATED {supported}                  OPTIONAL,
    -- R4 19-1-1 per FR Network controlled small gap (NCSG)
    ncsg-MeasGapPerFR-r17                   ENUMERATED {supported}                  OPTIONAL,
    -- R4 19-1-2 Network controlled small gap (NCSG) supported patterns
    ncsg-MeasGapPatterns-r17                BIT STRING (SIZE(24))                   OPTIONAL,
    -- R4 19-1-3 Network controlled small gap (NCSG) supported NR-only patterns
    ncsg-MeasGapNR-Patterns-r17             BIT STRING (SIZE(24))                   OPTIONAL,
    -- R4 19-3-2 pre-configured measurement gap
    preconfiguredUE-AutonomousMeasGap-r17   ENUMERATED {supported}                  OPTIONAL,
    -- R4 19-3-1 pre-configured measurement gap
    preconfiguredNW-ControlledMeasGap-r17   ENUMERATED {supported}                  OPTIONAL,
    handoverFR1-FR2-2-r17                   ENUMERATED {supported}                  OPTIONAL,
    handoverFR2-1-FR2-2-r17                 ENUMERATED {supported}                  OPTIONAL,
    -- RAN4 14-1: per-FR MG for PRS measurement
    independentGapConfigPRS-r17             ENUMERATED {supported}                  OPTIONAL,
    rrm-RelaxationRRC-ConnectedRedCap-r17   ENUMERATED {supported}                  OPTIONAL,
    -- R4 25-3: Parallel measurements with multiple measurement gaps
    parallelMeasurementGap-r17              ENUMERATED {n2}                         OPTIONAL,
    condHandoverWithSCG-NRDC-r17            ENUMERATED {supported}                  OPTIONAL,
    gNB-ID-LengthReporting-r17              ENUMERATED {supported}                  OPTIONAL,
    gNB-ID-LengthReporting-ENDC-r17         ENUMERATED {supported}                  OPTIONAL,
    gNB-ID-LengthReporting-NEDC-r17         ENUMERATED {supported}                  OPTIONAL,
    gNB-ID-LengthReporting-NRDC-r17         ENUMERATED {supported}                  OPTIONAL,
    gNB-ID-LengthReporting-NPN-r17          ENUMERATED {supported}                  OPTIONAL
    ]],
    [[
    -- R4 25-1: Parallel measurements on multiple SMTC-s for a single frequency carrier
    parallelSMTC-r17                        ENUMERATED {n4}                         OPTIONAL,
    -- R4 19-2-1 Concurrent measurement gaps for EUTRA
    concurrentMeasGapEUTRA-r17              ENUMERATED {supported}                  OPTIONAL,
    serviceLinkPropDelayDiffReporting-r17   ENUMERATED {supported}                  OPTIONAL,
    -- R4 19-1-4 Network controlled small gap (NCSG) performing measurement based on flag deriveSSB-IndexFromCellInter
    ncsg-SymbolLevelScheduleRestrictionInter-r17  ENUMERATED {supported}            OPTIONAL
    ]],
    [[
    eventD1-MeasReportTrigger-r17           ENUMERATED {supported}                  OPTIONAL,
    independentGapConfig-maxCC-r17          SEQUENCE {
        fr1-Only-r17                            INTEGER (1..32)                     OPTIONAL,
        fr2-Only-r17                            INTEGER (1..32)                     OPTIONAL,
        fr1-AndFR2-r17                          INTEGER (1..32)                     OPTIONAL
    }                                                                               OPTIONAL
    ]],
    [[
    interSatMeas-r17                            ENUMERATED {supported}              OPTIONAL,
    deriveSSB-IndexFromCellInterNon-NCSG-r17    ENUMERATED {supported}              OPTIONAL
    ]],
    [[
    -- R4 31-1 Enhanced L3 measurement reporting for unknown SCell activation if the valid L3 measurement results are available
    l3-MeasUnknownSCellActivation-r18           ENUMERATED {supported}              OPTIONAL,
    -- R4 31-3 Shorter measurement interval for unknown SCell activation
    shortMeasInterval-r18                       ENUMERATED {supported}              OPTIONAL,
    nr-NeedForInterruptionReport-r18            ENUMERATED {supported}              OPTIONAL,
    measSequenceConfig-r18                      ENUMERATED {supported}              OPTIONAL,
    cellIndividualOffsetPerMeasEvent-r18        ENUMERATED {supported}              OPTIONAL,
    eventD2-MeasReportTrigger-r18               ENUMERATED {supported}              OPTIONAL,
    -- R4 32-1: Concurrent gaps with Pre-MG in a FR
    concurrentMeasGapsPreMG-r18                 ENUMERATED {supported}              OPTIONAL,
    -- R4 32-2: Support for dynamic collisions
    dynamicCollision-r18                        ENUMERATED {supported}              OPTIONAL,
    -- R4 32-3: Concurrent gaps with NCSG in a FR
    concurrentMeasGapsNCSG-r18                  ENUMERATED {supported}              OPTIONAL,
    -- R4 32-4: Inter-RAT EUTRAN measurements without gap and outside active DL BWP
    eutra-NoGapMeasurementOutsideBWP-r18        ENUMERATED {supported}              OPTIONAL,
    -- R4 32-5: Inter-RAT EUTRAN measurement without gap and within active DL BWP
    eutra-NoGapMeasurementInsideBWP-r18         ENUMERATED {supported}              OPTIONAL,
    -- R4 32-6: Effective measurement window for inter-RAT EUTRAN measurements
    eutra-MeasEMW-r18                           BIT STRING (SIZE(6))                OPTIONAL,
    -- R4 32-7: Simultaneous reception of NR data and EUTRAN CRS with different numerology
    concurrentMeasCRS-InsideBWP-EUTRA-r18       ENUMERATED {supported}              OPTIONAL,
    -- R4 39-2a: SSB based inter-frequency L1-RSRP measurements with measurement gaps
    ltm-InterFreqMeasGap-r18                    ENUMERATED {supported}              OPTIONAL,
    dummy-ltm-FastUE-Processing-r18             SEQUENCE {
         fr1-r18                                    ENUMERATED {ms10, ms15},
         fr2-r18                                    ENUMERATED {ms10, ms15},
         fr1-AndFR2-r18                             ENUMERATED {ms20, ms30}
    }                                                                                OPTIONAL,
    rach-LessHandoverInterFreq-r18              ENUMERATED {supported}               OPTIONAL,
    enterAndLeaveCellReport-r18                 ENUMERATED {supported}               OPTIONAL,
    bestCellChangeReport-r18                    ENUMERATED {supported}               OPTIONAL,
    secondBestCellChangeReport-r18              ENUMERATED {supported}               OPTIONAL
    ]],
    [[
    ltm-InterFreq-r18                           ENUMERATED {supported}               OPTIONAL,
    ltm-MCG-NRDC-r18                            ENUMERATED {supported}               OPTIONAL,
    ltm-RACH-LessDG-r18                         ENUMERATED {supported}               OPTIONAL,
    ltm-RACH-LessCG-r18                         ENUMERATED {supported}               OPTIONAL,
    ltm-Recovery-r18                            ENUMERATED {supported}               OPTIONAL,
    ltm-ReferenceConfig-r18                     ENUMERATED {supported}               OPTIONAL,
    ltm-MCG-NRDC-Release-r18                    ENUMERATED {supported}               OPTIONAL,
    -- R4 39-7: Faster UE processing time during cell switch
    ltm-FastUE-Processing-r18                   SEQUENCE {
         fr1-r18                                    ENUMERATED {ms10, ms15}          OPTIONAL,
         fr2-r18                                    ENUMERATED {ms10, ms15}          OPTIONAL,
         fr1-AndFR2-r18                             ENUMERATED {ms20, ms30}          OPTIONAL
    }                                                                                OPTIONAL,
    ntn-NeighbourCellInfoSupport-r18            ENUMERATED {supported}               OPTIONAL
    ]],
    [[
    ltm-interFreqL1-OnlyInBC-r18                ENUMERATED {supported}               OPTIONAL
    ]]
}

MeasAndMobParametersCommon-v15t0 ::=    SEQUENCE {
    intraF-NeighMeasForSCellWithoutSSB      ENUMERATED{supported}                   OPTIONAL
}

MeasAndMobParametersXDD-Diff ::=        SEQUENCE {
    intraAndInterF-MeasAndReport            ENUMERATED {supported}                  OPTIONAL,
    eventA-MeasAndReport                    ENUMERATED {supported}                  OPTIONAL,
    ...,
    [[
    handoverInterF                          ENUMERATED {supported}                  OPTIONAL,
    handoverLTE-EPC                         ENUMERATED {supported}                  OPTIONAL,
    handoverLTE-5GC                         ENUMERATED {supported}                  OPTIONAL
    ]],
    [[
    sftd-MeasNR-Neigh                       ENUMERATED {supported}                  OPTIONAL,
    sftd-MeasNR-Neigh-DRX                   ENUMERATED {supported}                  OPTIONAL
    ]],
    [[
    dummy                                   ENUMERATED {supported}                  OPTIONAL
    ]]
}

MeasAndMobParametersFRX-Diff ::=            SEQUENCE {
    ss-SINR-Meas                                ENUMERATED {supported}              OPTIONAL,
    csi-RSRP-AndRSRQ-MeasWithSSB                ENUMERATED {supported}              OPTIONAL,
    csi-RSRP-AndRSRQ-MeasWithoutSSB             ENUMERATED {supported}              OPTIONAL,
    csi-SINR-Meas                               ENUMERATED {supported}              OPTIONAL,
    csi-RS-RLM                                  ENUMERATED {supported}              OPTIONAL,
    ...,
    [[
    handoverInterF                              ENUMERATED {supported}              OPTIONAL,
    handoverLTE-EPC                             ENUMERATED {supported}              OPTIONAL,
    handoverLTE-5GC                             ENUMERATED {supported}              OPTIONAL
    ]],
    [[
    maxNumberResource-CSI-RS-RLM                ENUMERATED {n2, n4, n6, n8}         OPTIONAL
    ]],
    [[
    simultaneousRxDataSSB-DiffNumerology        ENUMERATED {supported}              OPTIONAL
    ]],
    [[
    nr-AutonomousGaps-r16                       ENUMERATED {supported}              OPTIONAL,
    nr-AutonomousGaps-ENDC-r16                  ENUMERATED {supported}              OPTIONAL,
    nr-AutonomousGaps-NEDC-r16                  ENUMERATED {supported}              OPTIONAL,
    nr-AutonomousGaps-NRDC-r16                  ENUMERATED {supported}              OPTIONAL,
    dummy                                       ENUMERATED {supported}              OPTIONAL,
    cli-RSSI-Meas-r16                           ENUMERATED {supported}              OPTIONAL,
    cli-SRS-RSRP-Meas-r16                       ENUMERATED {supported}              OPTIONAL,
    interFrequencyMeas-NoGap-r16                ENUMERATED {supported}              OPTIONAL,
    simultaneousRxDataSSB-DiffNumerology-Inter-r16  ENUMERATED {supported}          OPTIONAL,
    idleInactiveNR-MeasReport-r16               ENUMERATED {supported}              OPTIONAL,
    -- R4 6-2: Support of beam level Early Measurement Reporting
    idleInactiveNR-MeasBeamReport-r16           ENUMERATED {supported}              OPTIONAL
    ]],
    [[
    increasedNumberofCSIRSPerMO-r16             ENUMERATED {supported}              OPTIONAL
    ]]
}

MeasAndMobParametersFR2-2-r17 ::=           SEQUENCE {
    handoverInterF-r17                          ENUMERATED {supported}              OPTIONAL,
    handoverLTE-EPC-r17                         ENUMERATED {supported}              OPTIONAL,
    handoverLTE-5GC-r17                         ENUMERATED {supported}              OPTIONAL,
    idleInactiveNR-MeasReport-r17               ENUMERATED {supported}              OPTIONAL,
...
}

-- TAG-MEASANDMOBPARAMETERS-STOP
-- ASN1STOP

–	MeasAndMobParametersMRDC
The IE MeasAndMobParametersMRDC is used to convey capability parameters related to RRM measurements and RRC mobility.
MeasAndMobParametersMRDC information element
-- ASN1START
-- TAG-MEASANDMOBPARAMETERSMRDC-START

MeasAndMobParametersMRDC ::=            SEQUENCE {
    measAndMobParametersMRDC-Common         MeasAndMobParametersMRDC-Common                 OPTIONAL,
    measAndMobParametersMRDC-XDD-Diff       MeasAndMobParametersMRDC-XDD-Diff               OPTIONAL,
    measAndMobParametersMRDC-FRX-Diff       MeasAndMobParametersMRDC-FRX-Diff               OPTIONAL
}

MeasAndMobParametersMRDC-v1560 ::=      SEQUENCE {
    measAndMobParametersMRDC-XDD-Diff-v1560    MeasAndMobParametersMRDC-XDD-Diff-v1560      OPTIONAL
}

MeasAndMobParametersMRDC-v1610 ::=      SEQUENCE {
    measAndMobParametersMRDC-Common-v1610      MeasAndMobParametersMRDC-Common-v1610        OPTIONAL,
    interNR-MeasEUTRA-IAB-r16                  ENUMERATED {supported}                       OPTIONAL
}

MeasAndMobParametersMRDC-v1700 ::=      SEQUENCE {
    measAndMobParametersMRDC-Common-v1700      MeasAndMobParametersMRDC-Common-v1700        OPTIONAL
}

MeasAndMobParametersMRDC-v1730 ::=      SEQUENCE {
    measAndMobParametersMRDC-Common-v1730   MeasAndMobParametersMRDC-Common-v1730           OPTIONAL
}

MeasAndMobParametersMRDC-v1810 ::=      SEQUENCE {
    measAndMobParametersMRDC-Common-v1810   MeasAndMobParametersMRDC-Common-v1810           OPTIONAL
}

MeasAndMobParametersMRDC-Common ::=     SEQUENCE {
    independentGapConfig                    ENUMERATED {supported}                          OPTIONAL
}

MeasAndMobParametersMRDC-Common-v1610 ::=   SEQUENCE {
    condPSCellChangeParametersCommon-r16        SEQUENCE {
        condPSCellChangeFDD-TDD-r16                 ENUMERATED {supported}                  OPTIONAL,
        condPSCellChangeFR1-FR2-r16                 ENUMERATED {supported}                  OPTIONAL
    }                                                                                       OPTIONAL,
    pscellT312-r16                              ENUMERATED {supported}                      OPTIONAL
}

MeasAndMobParametersMRDC-Common-v1700 ::=   SEQUENCE {
    condPSCellChangeParameters-r17              SEQUENCE {
        inter-SN-condPSCellChangeFDD-TDD-NRDC-r17       ENUMERATED {supported}              OPTIONAL,
        inter-SN-condPSCellChangeFR1-FR2-NRDC-r17       ENUMERATED {supported}              OPTIONAL,
        inter-SN-condPSCellChangeFDD-TDD-ENDC-r17       ENUMERATED {supported}              OPTIONAL,
        inter-SN-condPSCellChangeFR1-FR2-ENDC-r17       ENUMERATED {supported}              OPTIONAL,
        mn-InitiatedCondPSCellChange-FR1FDD-ENDC-r17    ENUMERATED {supported}              OPTIONAL,
        mn-InitiatedCondPSCellChange-FR1TDD-ENDC-r17    ENUMERATED {supported}              OPTIONAL,
        mn-InitiatedCondPSCellChange-FR2TDD-ENDC-r17    ENUMERATED {supported}              OPTIONAL,
        sn-InitiatedCondPSCellChange-FR1FDD-ENDC-r17    ENUMERATED {supported}              OPTIONAL,
        sn-InitiatedCondPSCellChange-FR1TDD-ENDC-r17    ENUMERATED {supported}              OPTIONAL,
        sn-InitiatedCondPSCellChange-FR2TDD-ENDC-r17    ENUMERATED {supported}              OPTIONAL
    }                                                                                       OPTIONAL,
    condHandoverWithSCG-ENDC-r17                        ENUMERATED {supported}              OPTIONAL,
    condHandoverWithSCG-NEDC-r17                        ENUMERATED {supported}              OPTIONAL
}

MeasAndMobParametersMRDC-Common-v1730 ::= SEQUENCE {
    independentGapConfig-maxCC-r17          SEQUENCE {
        fr1-Only-r17                            INTEGER (1..32)                             OPTIONAL,
        fr2-Only-r17                            INTEGER (1..32)                             OPTIONAL,
        fr1-AndFR2-r17                          INTEGER (1..32)                             OPTIONAL
    }
}

MeasAndMobParametersMRDC-Common-v1810 ::=           SEQUENCE {
    mn-ConfiguredMN-TriggerSCPAC-r18                    ENUMERATED {supported}              OPTIONAL,
    mn-ConfiguredSN-TriggerSCPAC-r18                    ENUMERATED {supported}              OPTIONAL,
    sn-ConfiguredSCPAC-r18                              ENUMERATED {supported}              OPTIONAL,
    mn-ConfiguredMN-TriggerSCPAC-afterSCG-release-r18   ENUMERATED {supported}              OPTIONAL,
    mn-ConfiguredReferenceConfigSCPAC-r18               ENUMERATED {supported}              OPTIONAL,
    sn-ConfiguredReferenceConfigSCPAC-r18               ENUMERATED {supported}              OPTIONAL,
    condHandoverWithCandSCG-Addition-r18                ENUMERATED {supported}              OPTIONAL,
    condHandoverWithCandSCG-FR1-FR2-Change-r18          ENUMERATED {supported}              OPTIONAL,
    condHandoverWithCandSCG-FDD-TDD-Change-r18          ENUMERATED {supported}              OPTIONAL
}

MeasAndMobParametersMRDC-XDD-Diff ::=   SEQUENCE {
    sftd-MeasPSCell                         ENUMERATED {supported}                          OPTIONAL,
    sftd-MeasNR-Cell                        ENUMERATED {supported}                          OPTIONAL
}

MeasAndMobParametersMRDC-XDD-Diff-v1560 ::=    SEQUENCE {
    sftd-MeasPSCell-NEDC                           ENUMERATED {supported}                   OPTIONAL
}

MeasAndMobParametersMRDC-FRX-Diff ::=          SEQUENCE {
    simultaneousRxDataSSB-DiffNumerology           ENUMERATED {supported}                   OPTIONAL
}

-- TAG-MEASANDMOBPARAMETERSMRDC-STOP
-- ASN1STOP

–	MIMO-Layers
The IE MIMO-Layers is used to convey the number of supported MIMO layers.
MIMO-Layers information element
-- ASN1START
-- TAG-MIMO-LAYERS-START

MIMO-LayersDL ::=   ENUMERATED {twoLayers, fourLayers, eightLayers}

MIMO-LayersUL ::=   ENUMERATED {oneLayer, twoLayers, fourLayers}

-- TAG-MIMO-LAYERS-STOP
-- ASN1STOP

–	MIMO-ParametersPerBand
The IE MIMO-ParametersPerBand is used to convey MIMO related parameters specific for a certain band (not per feature set or band combination).
MIMO-ParametersPerBand information element
-- ASN1START
-- TAG-MIMO-PARAMETERSPERBAND-START

MIMO-ParametersPerBand ::=          SEQUENCE {
    tci-StatePDSCH                      SEQUENCE {
        maxNumberConfiguredTCI-StatesPerCC  ENUMERATED {n4, n8, n16, n32, n64, n128}                                   OPTIONAL,
        maxNumberActiveTCI-PerBWP           ENUMERATED {n1, n2, n4, n8}                                                OPTIONAL
    }                                                                                                              OPTIONAL,
    additionalActiveTCI-StatePDCCH              ENUMERATED {supported}                                             OPTIONAL,
    pusch-TransCoherence                        ENUMERATED {nonCoherent, partialCoherent, fullCoherent}            OPTIONAL,
    beamCorrespondenceWithoutUL-BeamSweeping    ENUMERATED {supported}                                             OPTIONAL,
    periodicBeamReport                          ENUMERATED {supported}                                             OPTIONAL,
    aperiodicBeamReport                         ENUMERATED {supported}                                             OPTIONAL,
    sp-BeamReportPUCCH                          ENUMERATED {supported}                                             OPTIONAL,
    sp-BeamReportPUSCH                          ENUMERATED {supported}                                             OPTIONAL,
    dummy1                                      DummyG                                                             OPTIONAL,
    maxNumberRxBeam                             INTEGER (2..8)                                                     OPTIONAL,
    maxNumberRxTxBeamSwitchDL                   SEQUENCE {
        scs-15kHz                                   ENUMERATED {n4, n7, n14}                                           OPTIONAL,
        scs-30kHz                                   ENUMERATED {n4, n7, n14}                                           OPTIONAL,
        scs-60kHz                                   ENUMERATED {n4, n7, n14}                                           OPTIONAL,
        scs-120kHz                                  ENUMERATED {n4, n7, n14}                                           OPTIONAL,
        scs-240kHz                                  ENUMERATED {n4, n7, n14}                                           OPTIONAL
    }                                                                                                              OPTIONAL,
    maxNumberNonGroupBeamReporting              ENUMERATED {n1, n2, n4}                                            OPTIONAL,
    groupBeamReporting                          ENUMERATED {supported}                                             OPTIONAL,
    uplinkBeamManagement                        SEQUENCE {
        maxNumberSRS-ResourcePerSet-BM              ENUMERATED {n2, n4, n8, n16},
        maxNumberSRS-ResourceSet                    INTEGER (1..8)
    }                                                                                                              OPTIONAL,
    maxNumberCSI-RS-BFD                 INTEGER (1..64)                                                            OPTIONAL,
    maxNumberSSB-BFD                    INTEGER (1..64)                                                            OPTIONAL,
    maxNumberCSI-RS-SSB-CBD             INTEGER (1..256)                                                           OPTIONAL,
    dummy2                              ENUMERATED {supported}                                                     OPTIONAL,
    twoPortsPTRS-UL                     ENUMERATED {supported}                                                     OPTIONAL,
    dummy5                              SRS-Resources                                                              OPTIONAL,
    dummy3                              INTEGER (1..4)                                                             OPTIONAL,
    beamReportTiming                    SEQUENCE {
        scs-15kHz                           ENUMERATED {sym2, sym4, sym8}                                              OPTIONAL,
        scs-30kHz                           ENUMERATED {sym4, sym8, sym14, sym28}                                      OPTIONAL,
        scs-60kHz                           ENUMERATED {sym8, sym14, sym28}                                            OPTIONAL,
        scs-120kHz                          ENUMERATED {sym14, sym28, sym56}                                           OPTIONAL
    }                                                                                                              OPTIONAL,
    ptrs-DensityRecommendationSetDL     SEQUENCE {
        scs-15kHz                           PTRS-DensityRecommendationDL                                               OPTIONAL,
        scs-30kHz                           PTRS-DensityRecommendationDL                                               OPTIONAL,
        scs-60kHz                           PTRS-DensityRecommendationDL                                               OPTIONAL,
        scs-120kHz                          PTRS-DensityRecommendationDL                                               OPTIONAL
    }                                                                                                              OPTIONAL,
    ptrs-DensityRecommendationSetUL     SEQUENCE {
        scs-15kHz                           PTRS-DensityRecommendationUL                                               OPTIONAL,
        scs-30kHz                           PTRS-DensityRecommendationUL                                               OPTIONAL,
        scs-60kHz                           PTRS-DensityRecommendationUL                                               OPTIONAL,
        scs-120kHz                          PTRS-DensityRecommendationUL                                               OPTIONAL
    }                                                                                                              OPTIONAL,
    dummy4                              DummyH                                                                     OPTIONAL,
    aperiodicTRS                        ENUMERATED {supported}                                                     OPTIONAL,
    ...,
    [[
    dummy6                              ENUMERATED {true}                                                          OPTIONAL,
    beamManagementSSB-CSI-RS            BeamManagementSSB-CSI-RS                                                   OPTIONAL,
    beamSwitchTiming                    SEQUENCE {
        scs-60kHz                           ENUMERATED {sym14, sym28, sym48, sym224, sym336}                           OPTIONAL,
        scs-120kHz                          ENUMERATED {sym14, sym28, sym48, sym224, sym336}                           OPTIONAL
    }                                                                                                              OPTIONAL,
    codebookParameters                  CodebookParameters                                                         OPTIONAL,
    csi-RS-IM-ReceptionForFeedback      CSI-RS-IM-ReceptionForFeedback                                             OPTIONAL,
    csi-RS-ProcFrameworkForSRS          CSI-RS-ProcFrameworkForSRS                                                 OPTIONAL,
    csi-ReportFramework                 CSI-ReportFramework                                                        OPTIONAL,
    csi-RS-ForTracking                  CSI-RS-ForTracking                                                         OPTIONAL,
    srs-AssocCSI-RS                     SEQUENCE (SIZE (1.. maxNrofCSI-RS-Resources)) OF SupportedCSI-RS-Resource  OPTIONAL,
    spatialRelations                    SpatialRelations                                                           OPTIONAL
    ]],
    [[
    -- R1 16-2b-0: Support of default QCL assumption with two TCI states
    defaultQCL-TwoTCI-r16               ENUMERATED {supported}                                                     OPTIONAL,
    codebookParametersPerBand-r16       CodebookParameters-v1610                                                   OPTIONAL,
    -- R1 16-1b-3: Support of PUCCH resource groups per BWP for simultaneous spatial relation update
    simul-SpatialRelationUpdatePUCCHResGroup-r16    ENUMERATED {supported}                                         OPTIONAL,

    -- R1 16-1f: Maximum number of SCells configured for SCell beam failure recovery simultaneously
    maxNumberSCellBFR-r16                           ENUMERATED {n1,n2,n4,n8}                                       OPTIONAL,

    -- R1 16-2c: Supports simultaneous reception with different Type-D for FR2 only
    simultaneousReceptionDiffTypeD-r16              ENUMERATED {supported}                                         OPTIONAL,
    -- R1 16-1a-1: SSB/CSI-RS for L1-SINR measurement
    ssb-csirs-SINR-measurement-r16      SEQUENCE {
        maxNumberSSB-CSIRS-OneTx-CMR-r16    ENUMERATED {n8, n16, n32, n64},
        maxNumberCSI-IM-NZP-IMR-res-r16     ENUMERATED {n8, n16, n32, n64},
        maxNumberCSIRS-2Tx-res-r16          ENUMERATED {n0, n4, n8, n16, n32, n64},
        maxNumberSSB-CSIRS-res-r16          ENUMERATED {n8, n16, n32, n64, n128},
        maxNumberCSI-IM-NZP-IMR-res-mem-r16 ENUMERATED {n8, n16, n32, n64, n128},
        supportedCSI-RS-Density-CMR-r16     ENUMERATED {one, three, oneAndThree},
        maxNumberAperiodicCSI-RS-Res-r16    ENUMERATED {n2, n4, n8, n16, n32, n64},
        supportedSINR-meas-r16              ENUMERATED {ssbWithCSI-IM, ssbWithNZP-IMR, csirsWithNZP-IMR, csi-RSWithoutIMR}  OPTIONAL
    }                                                                                                              OPTIONAL,
    -- R1 16-1a-2: Non-group based L1-SINR reporting
    nonGroupSINR-reporting-r16              ENUMERATED {n1, n2, n4}                                                OPTIONAL,
    -- R1 16-1a-3: Non-group based L1-SINR reporting
    groupSINR-reporting-r16                 ENUMERATED {supported}                                                 OPTIONAL,

    multiDCI-multiTRP-Parameters-r16        SEQUENCE {
        -- R1 16-2a-0: Overlapping PDSCHs in time and fully overlapping in frequency and time
        overlapPDSCHsFullyFreqTime-r16          INTEGER (1..2)                                                     OPTIONAL,
        -- R1 16-2a-1: Overlapping PDSCHs in time and partially overlapping in frequency and time
        overlapPDSCHsInTimePartiallyFreq-r16    ENUMERATED {supported}                                             OPTIONAL,
        -- R1 16-2a-2: Out of order operation for DL
        outOfOrderOperationDL-r16               SEQUENCE {
            supportPDCCH-ToPDSCH-r16                ENUMERATED {supported}                                         OPTIONAL,
            supportPDSCH-ToHARQ-ACK-r16             ENUMERATED {supported}                                         OPTIONAL
        }                                                                                                          OPTIONAL,
        -- R1 16-2a-3: Out of order operation for UL
        outOfOrderOperationUL-r16               ENUMERATED {supported}                                             OPTIONAL,
        -- R1 16-2a-5: Separate CRS rate matching
        separateCRS-RateMatching-r16            ENUMERATED {supported}                                             OPTIONAL,
        -- R1 16-2a-6: Default QCL enhancement for multi-DCI based multi-TRP
        defaultQCL-PerCORESETPoolIndex-r16      ENUMERATED {supported}                                             OPTIONAL,
        -- R1 16-2a-7: Maximum number of activated TCI states
        maxNumberActivatedTCI-States-r16        SEQUENCE {
            maxNumberPerCORESET-Pool-r16            ENUMERATED {n1, n2, n4, n8},
            maxTotalNumberAcrossCORESET-Pool-r16    ENUMERATED {n2, n4, n8, n16}
        }                                                                                                          OPTIONAL
    }                                                                                                              OPTIONAL,
    singleDCI-SDM-scheme-Parameters-r16         SEQUENCE {
        -- R1 16-2b-1b: Single-DCI based SDM scheme - Support of new DMRS port entry
        supportNewDMRS-Port-r16                     ENUMERATED {supported1, supported2, supported3}                                        OPTIONAL,
        -- R1 16-2b-1a: Support of s-port DL PTRS
        supportTwoPortDL-PTRS-r16                   ENUMERATED {supported}                                         OPTIONAL
    }                                                                                                              OPTIONAL,
    -- R1 16-2b-2: Support of single-DCI based FDMSchemeA
    supportFDM-SchemeA-r16                      ENUMERATED {supported}                                             OPTIONAL,
    -- R1 16-2b-3a: Single-DCI based FDMSchemeB CW soft combining
    supportCodeWordSoftCombining-r16            ENUMERATED {supported}                                             OPTIONAL,
    -- R1 16-2b-4: Single-DCI based TDMSchemeA	
    supportTDM-SchemeA-r16                      ENUMERATED {kb3, kb5, kb10, kb20, noRestriction}                   OPTIONAL,
    -- R1 16-2b-5: Single-DCI based inter-slot TDM
    supportInter-slotTDM-r16                    SEQUENCE {
        supportRepNumPDSCH-TDRA-r16                 ENUMERATED {n2, n3, n4, n5, n6, n7, n8, n16},
        maxTBS-Size-r16                             ENUMERATED {kb3, kb5, kb10, kb20, noRestriction},
        maxNumberTCI-states-r16                     INTEGER (1..2)
    }                                                                                                              OPTIONAL,
    -- R1 16-4: Low PAPR DMRS for PDSCH
    lowPAPR-DMRS-PDSCH-r16                      ENUMERATED {supported}                                             OPTIONAL,
    -- R1 16-6a: Low PAPR DMRS for PUSCH without transform precoding
    lowPAPR-DMRS-PUSCHwithoutPrecoding-r16      ENUMERATED {supported}                                             OPTIONAL,
    -- R1 16-6b: Low PAPR DMRS for PUCCH
    lowPAPR-DMRS-PUCCH-r16                      ENUMERATED {supported}                                             OPTIONAL,
    -- R1 16-6c: Low PAPR DMRS for PUSCH with transform precoding & pi/2 BPSK
    lowPAPR-DMRS-PUSCHwithPrecoding-r16         ENUMERATED {supported}                                             OPTIONAL,
    -- R1 16-7: Extension of the maximum number of configured aperiodic CSI report settings
    csi-ReportFrameworkExt-r16                  CSI-ReportFrameworkExt-r16                                         OPTIONAL,
    -- R1 16-3a, 16-3a-1, 16-3b, 16-3b-1, 16-8: Individual new codebook types
    codebookParametersAddition-r16              CodebookParametersAddition-r16                                     OPTIONAL,
    -- R1 16-8: Mixed codebook types
    codebookComboParametersAddition-r16         CodebookComboParametersAddition-r16                                OPTIONAL,
    -- R4 8-2: SSB based beam correspondence
    beamCorrespondenceSSB-based-r16             ENUMERATED {supported}                                             OPTIONAL,
    -- R4 8-3: CSI-RS based beam correspondence
    beamCorrespondenceCSI-RS-based-r16          ENUMERATED {supported}                                             OPTIONAL,
    beamSwitchTiming-r16                        SEQUENCE {
        scs-60kHz-r16                               ENUMERATED {sym224, sym336}                                    OPTIONAL,
        scs-120kHz-r16                              ENUMERATED {sym224, sym336}                                    OPTIONAL
    }                                                                                                              OPTIONAL
    ]],
    [[
    -- R1 16-1a-4: Semi-persistent L1-SINR report on PUCCH
    semi-PersistentL1-SINR-Report-PUCCH-r16     SEQUENCE {
        supportReportFormat1-2OFDM-syms-r16         ENUMERATED {supported}                                     OPTIONAL,
        supportReportFormat4-14OFDM-syms-r16        ENUMERATED {supported}                                     OPTIONAL
    }                                                                                                          OPTIONAL,
    -- R1 16-1a-5: Semi-persistent L1-SINR report on PUSCH
    semi-PersistentL1-SINR-Report-PUSCH-r16     ENUMERATED {supported}                                         OPTIONAL
    ]],
    [[
    -- R1 16-1h: Support of 64 configured PUCCH spatial relations
    spatialRelations-v1640                      SEQUENCE {
        maxNumberConfiguredSpatialRelations-v1640   ENUMERATED {n96, n128, n160, n192, n224, n256, n288, n320}
    }                                                                                                          OPTIONAL,
    -- R1 16-1i: Support of 64 configured candidate beam RSs for BFR
    support64CandidateBeamRS-BFR-r16            ENUMERATED {supported}                                         OPTIONAL
    ]],
    [[
    -- R1 16-2a-9: Interpretation of maxNumberMIMO-LayersPDSCH for multi-DCI based mTRP
    maxMIMO-LayersForMulti-DCI-mTRP-r16         ENUMERATED {supported}                                         OPTIONAL
    ]],
    [[
    supportedSINR-meas-v1670                    BIT STRING (SIZE (4))                                          OPTIONAL
    ]],
    [[
    -- R1 23-8-5	Increased repetition for SRS
    srs-increasedRepetition-r17                 ENUMERATED {supported}                                         OPTIONAL,
    -- R1 23-8-6	Partial frequency sounding of SRS
    srs-partialFrequencySounding-r17            ENUMERATED {supported}                                         OPTIONAL,
    -- R1 23-8-7	Start RB location hopping for partial frequency SRS
    srs-startRB-locationHoppingPartial-r17      ENUMERATED {supported}                                         OPTIONAL,
    -- R1 23-8-8	Comb-8 SRS
    srs-combEight-r17                           ENUMERATED {supported}                                         OPTIONAL,
    -- R1 23-9-1	Basic Features of Further Enhanced Port-Selection Type II Codebook (FeType-II) per band information
    codebookParametersfetype2-r17               CodebookParametersfetype2-r17                                  OPTIONAL,
    -- R1 23-3-1-2a    Two associated CSI-RS resources
    mTRP-PUSCH-twoCSI-RS-r17                    ENUMERATED {supported}                                         OPTIONAL,
    -- R1 23-3-2    Multi-TRP PUCCH repetition scheme 1 (inter-slot)
    mTRP-PUCCH-InterSlot-r17                    ENUMERATED {pf0-2, pf1-3-4, pf0-4}                             OPTIONAL,
    -- R1 23-3-2b    Cyclic mapping for multi-TRP PUCCH repetition
    mTRP-PUCCH-CyclicMapping-r17                ENUMERATED {supported}                                         OPTIONAL,
    -- R1 23-3-2c    Second TPC field for multi-TRP PUCCH repetition
    mTRP-PUCCH-SecondTPC-r17                    ENUMERATED {supported}                                         OPTIONAL,
    -- R1 23-5-2    MTRP BFR based on two BFD-RS set
    mTRP-BFR-twoBFD-RS-Set-r17                  SEQUENCE {
        maxBFD-RS-resourcesPerSetPerBWP-r17         ENUMERATED {n1, n2},
        maxBFR-r17                                  INTEGER (1..9),
        maxBFD-RS-resourcesAcrossSetsPerBWP-r17     ENUMERATED {n2, n3, n4}
    }                                                                                                          OPTIONAL,
    -- R1 23-5-2a    PUCCH-SR resources for MTRP BFRQ - Max number of PUCCH-SR resources for MTRP BFRQ per cell group
    mTRP-BFR-PUCCH-SR-perCG-r17                 ENUMERATED{n1, n2}                                             OPTIONAL,
    -- R1 23-5-2b    Association between a BFD-RS resource set on SpCell and a PUCCH SR resource
    mTRP-BFR-association-PUCCH-SR-r17           ENUMERATED {supported}                                         OPTIONAL,
    -- R1 23-6-3    Simultaneous activation of two TCI states for PDCCH across multiple CCs (HST/URLLC)
    sfn-SimulTwoTCI-AcrossMultiCC-r17           ENUMERATED {supported}                                         OPTIONAL,
    -- R1 23-6-4    Default DL beam setup for SFN
    sfn-DefaultDL-BeamSetup-r17                 ENUMERATED {supported}                                         OPTIONAL,
    -- R1 23-6-4a    Default UL beam setup for SFN PDCCH(FR2 only)
    sfn-DefaultUL-BeamSetup-r17                 ENUMERATED {supported}                                         OPTIONAL,
    -- R1 23-8-1    SRS triggering offset enhancement
    srs-TriggeringOffset-r17                    ENUMERATED {n1, n2, n4}                                        OPTIONAL,
    -- R1 23-8-2    Triggering SRS only in DCI 0_1/0_2
    srs-TriggeringDCI-r17                       ENUMERATED {supported}                                         OPTIONAL,
    -- R1 23-9-5    Active CSI-RS resources and ports for mixed codebook types in any slot per band information
    codebookComboParameterMixedType-r17         CodebookComboParameterMixedType-r17                            OPTIONAL,
    -- R1 23-1-1    Unified TCI [with joint DL/UL TCI update] for intra-cell beam management
    unifiedJointTCI-r17                         SEQUENCE{
        maxConfiguredJointTCI-r17                   ENUMERATED {n8, n12, n16, n24, n32, n48, n64, n128},
        maxActivatedTCIAcrossCC-r17                 ENUMERATED {n1, n2, n4, n8, n16}
    }                                                                                                          OPTIONAL,
    -- R1  23-1-1b    Unified TCI with joint DL/UL TCI update for intra- and inter-cell beam management with more than one MAC-CE
    unifiedJointTCI-multiMAC-CE-r17             SEQUENCE{
        minBeamApplicationTime-r17                  ENUMERATED {n1, n2, n4, n7, n14, n28, n42, n56, n70, n84, n98, n112, n224, n336}
                                                                                                               OPTIONAL,
        maxNumMAC-CE-PerCC                          ENUMERATED {n2, n3, n4, n5, n6, n7, n8}
    } OPTIONAL,
    -- R1 23-1-1d    Per BWP TCI state pool configuration for CA mode
    unifiedJointTCI-perBWP-CA-r17               ENUMERATED {supported}                                         OPTIONAL,
    -- R1 23-1-1e    TCI state pool configuration with TCI pool sharing for CA mode
    unifiedJointTCI-ListSharingCA-r17           ENUMERATED {n1,n2,n4,n8}                                       OPTIONAL,
    -- R1 23-1-1f    Common multi-CC TCI state ID update and activation
    unifiedJointTCI-commonMultiCC-r17           ENUMERATED {supported}                                         OPTIONAL,
    -- R1 23-1-1g    Beam misalignment between the DL source RS in the TCI state
    unifiedJointTCI-BeamAlignDLRS-r17           ENUMERATED {supported}                                         OPTIONAL,
    -- R1 23-1-1h    Association between TCI state and UL PC settings for PUCCH, PUSCH, and SRS
    unifiedJointTCI-PC-association-r17          ENUMERATED {supported}                                         OPTIONAL,
    -- R1 23-1-1i    Indication/configuration of R17 TCI states for aperiodic CSI-RS, PDCCH, PDSCH
    unifiedJointTCI-Legacy-r17                  ENUMERATED {supported}                                         OPTIONAL,
    -- 23-1-1m    Indication/configuration of R17 TCI states for SRS
    unifiedJointTCI-Legacy-SRS-r17              ENUMERATED {supported}                                         OPTIONAL,
    -- R1 23-1-1j    Indication/configuration of R17 TCI states for CORESET #0
    unifiedJointTCI-Legacy-CORESET0-r17         ENUMERATED {supported}                                         OPTIONAL,
    -- R1 23-1-1c    SCell BFR with unified TCI framework  (NOTE; pre-requisite is empty)
    unifiedJointTCI-SCellBFR-r17                ENUMERATED {supported}                                         OPTIONAL,
    -- R1 23-1-1a    Unified TCI with joint DL/UL TCI update for inter-cell beam management
    unifiedJointTCI-InterCell-r17               SEQUENCE{
        additionalMAC-CE-PerCC-r17                  ENUMERATED {n0, n1, n2, n4},
        additionalMAC-CE-AcrossCC-r17               ENUMERATED {n0, n1, n2, n4}
    }                                                                                                          OPTIONAL,
    -- R1  23-10-1    Unified TCI with separate DL/UL TCI update for intra-cell beam management
    unifiedSeparateTCI-r17                      SEQUENCE{
        maxConfiguredDL-TCI-r17                     ENUMERATED {n4, n8, n12, n16, n24, n32, n48, n64, n128},
        maxConfiguredUL-TCI-r17                     ENUMERATED {n4, n8, n12, n16, n24, n32, n48, n64},
        maxActivatedDL-TCIAcrossCC-r17              ENUMERATED {n1, n2, n4, n8, n16},
        maxActivatedUL-TCIAcrossCC-r17              ENUMERATED {n1, n2, n4, n8, n16}
    } OPTIONAL,
    -- R1  23-10-1b    Unified TCI with separate DL/UL TCI update for intra-cell beam management with more than one MAC-CE
    unifiedSeparateTCI-multiMAC-CE-r17          SEQUENCE{
        minBeamApplicationTime-r17                  ENUMERATED {n1, n2, n4, n7, n14, n28, n42, n56, n70, n84, n98, n112, n224, n336},
        maxActivatedDL-TCIPerCC-r17                 INTEGER (2..8),
        maxActivatedUL-TCIPerCC-r17                 INTEGER (2..8)
    }                                                                                                          OPTIONAL,
    -- R1 23-10-1d    Per BWP DL/UL-TCI state pool configuration for CA mode
    unifiedSeparateTCI-perBWP-CA-r17            ENUMERATED {supported}                                         OPTIONAL,
    -- R1 23-10-1e    TCI state pool configuration with DL/UL-TCI pool sharing for CA mode
    unifiedSeparateTCI-ListSharingCA-r17        SEQUENCE {
        maxNumListDL-TCI-r17                        ENUMERATED {n1,n2,n4,n8}                                   OPTIONAL,
        maxNumListUL-TCI-r17                        ENUMERATED {n1,n2,n4,n8}                                   OPTIONAL
    } OPTIONAL,
    -- R1 23-10-1f    Common multi-CC DL/UL-TCI state ID update and activation with separate DL/UL TCI update
    unifiedSeparateTCI-commonMultiCC-r17    ENUMERATED {supported}                                             OPTIONAL,
    -- 23-10-1m    Unified TCI with separate DL/UL TCI update for inter-cell beam management with more than one MAC-CE
    unifiedSeparateTCI-InterCell-r17            SEQUENCE {
        k-DL-PerCC-r17                              ENUMERATED {n0, n1, n2, n4},
        k-UL-PerCC-r17                              ENUMERATED {n0, n1, n2, n4},
        k-DL-AcrossCC-r17                           ENUMERATED {n0, n1, n2, n4},
        k-UL-AcrossCC-r17                           ENUMERATED {n0, n1, n2, n4}
    }                                                                                                          OPTIONAL,
    -- R1  23-1-2    Inter-cell beam measurement and reporting (for inter-cell BM and mTRP)
    unifiedJointTCI-mTRP-InterCell-BM-r17       SEQUENCE {
        maxNumAdditionalPCI-L1-RSRP-r17             INTEGER (1..7),
        maxNumSSB-ResourceL1-RSRP-AcrossCC-r17      ENUMERATED {n1,n2,n4,n8}
    }                                                                                                          OPTIONAL,
    -- R1  23-1-3    MPE mitigation
    mpe-Mitigation-r17                          SEQUENCE {
        maxNumP-MPR-RI-pairs-r17                    INTEGER (1..4),
        maxNumConfRS-r17                            ENUMERATED {n1, n2, n4, n8, n12, n16, n28, n32, n48, n64}
    }                                                                                                          OPTIONAL,
    -- R1  23-1-4    UE capability value reporting
    srs-PortReport-r17                          SEQUENCE {
            capVal1-r17                             ENUMERATED {n1, n2, n4}                                    OPTIONAL,
            capVal2-r17                             ENUMERATED {n1, n2, n4}                                    OPTIONAL,
            capVal3-r17                             ENUMERATED {n1, n2, n4}                                    OPTIONAL,
            capVal4-r17                             ENUMERATED {n1, n2, n4}                                    OPTIONAL
    }                                                                                                          OPTIONAL,
  -- R1 23-2-1a    Monitoring of individual candidates
    mTRP-PDCCH-individual-r17                   ENUMERATED {supported}                                         OPTIONAL,
  -- R1 23-2-1b    PDCCH repetition with PDCCH monitoring on any span of up to 3 consecutive OFDM symbols of a slot
    mTRP-PDCCH-anySpan-3Symbols-r17             ENUMERATED {supported}                                         OPTIONAL,
    -- R1 23-2-2    Two QCL TypeD for CORESET monitoring in PDCCH repetition
    mTRP-PDCCH-TwoQCL-TypeD-r17                 ENUMERATED {supported}                                         OPTIONAL,
    -- R1 23-3-1-2b    CSI-RS processing framework for SRS with two associated CSI-RS resources
    mTRP-PUSCH-CSI-RS-r17                       SEQUENCE {
        maxNumPeriodicSRS-r17                       INTEGER (1..8),
        maxNumAperiodicSRS-r17                      INTEGER (1..8),
        maxNumSP-SRS-r17                            INTEGER (0..8),
        numSRS-ResourcePerCC-r17                    INTEGER (1..16),
        numSRS-ResourceNonCodebook-r17              INTEGER (1..2)
    }                                                                                                          OPTIONAL,
    -- R1 23-3-1a    Cyclic mapping for Multi-TRP PUSCH repetition
    mTRP-PUSCH-cyclicMapping-r17                ENUMERATED {typeA,typeB,both}                                  OPTIONAL,
    -- R1 23-3-1b    Second TPC field for Multi-TRP PUSCH repetition
    mTRP-PUSCH-secondTPC-r17                    ENUMERATED {supported}                                         OPTIONAL,
    -- R1 23-3-1c     Two PHR reporting
    mTRP-PUSCH-twoPHR-Reporting-r17             ENUMERATED {supported}                                         OPTIONAL,
    -- R1 23-3-1e    A-CSI report
    mTRP-PUSCH-A-CSI-r17                        ENUMERATED {supported}                                         OPTIONAL,
    -- R1 23-3-1f    SP-CSI report
    mTRP-PUSCH-SP-CSI-r17                       ENUMERATED {supported}                                         OPTIONAL,
    -- R1 23-3-1g    CG PUSCH transmission
    mTRP-PUSCH-CG-r17                           ENUMERATED {supported}                                         OPTIONAL,
    -- R1 23-3-2d    Updating two Spatial relation or two sets of power control parameters for PUCCH group
    mTRP-PUCCH-MAC-CE-r17                       ENUMERATED {supported}                                         OPTIONAL,
    -- R1 23-3-2e    Maximum number of power control parameter sets configured for multi-TRP PUCCH repetition in FR1
    mTRP-PUCCH-maxNum-PC-FR1-r17                INTEGER (3..8)                                                 OPTIONAL,
    -- R1 23-4    IntCell-mTRP
    mTRP-inter-Cell-r17                         SEQUENCE {
        maxNumAdditionalPCI-Case1-r17               INTEGER (1..7),
        maxNumAdditionalPCI-Case2-r17               INTEGER (0..7)
    }                                                                                                          OPTIONAL,
    -- R1 23-5-1    Group based L1-RSRP reporting enhancements
    mTRP-GroupBasedL1-RSRP-r17                  SEQUENCE {
        maxNumBeamGroups-r17                        INTEGER (1..4),
        maxNumRS-WithinSlot-r17                     ENUMERATED {n2,n3,n4,n8,n16,n32,n64},
        maxNumRS-AcrossSlot-r17                     ENUMERATED {n8, n16, n32, n64, n128}
    }                                                                                                          OPTIONAL,
    -- R1 23-5-2c    MAC-CE based update of explicit BFD-RS    mTRP-PUCCH-IntraSlot-r17  => per band
    mTRP-BFD-RS-MAC-CE-r17                      ENUMERATED {n4, n8, n12, n16, n32, n48, n64 }                  OPTIONAL,
   -- R1 23-7-1    Basic Features of CSI Enhancement for Multi-TRP
    mTRP-CSI-EnhancementPerBand-r17             SEQUENCE {
        maxNumNZP-CSI-RS-r17                        INTEGER (2..8),
        cSI-Report-mode-r17                         ENUMERATED {mode1, mode2, both},
        supportedComboAcrossCCs-r17                 SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..16)) OF CSI-MultiTRP-SupportedCombinations-r17,
        codebookModeNCJT-r17                        ENUMERATED{mode1,mode1And2}
    }                                                                                                          OPTIONAL,
    -- R1 23-7-1b    Active CSI-RS resources and ports in the presence of multi-TRP CSI
    codebookComboParameterMultiTRP-r17          CodebookComboParameterMultiTRP-r17                             OPTIONAL,
    -- R1 23-7-1a    Additional CSI report mode 1
    mTRP-CSI-additionalCSI-r17                  ENUMERATED{x1,x2}                                              OPTIONAL,
    -- R1 23-7-4    Support of Nmax=2 for Multi-TRP CSI
    mTRP-CSI-N-Max2-r17                         ENUMERATED {supported}                                         OPTIONAL,
    -- R1 23-7-5    CMR sharing
    mTRP-CSI-CMR-r17                            ENUMERATED {supported}                                         OPTIONAL,
    -- R1 23-8-11    Partial frequency sounding of SRS for non-frequency hopping case
    srs-partialFreqSounding-r17                 ENUMERATED {supported}                                         OPTIONAL,
    -- R1-24 feature: Extend beamSwitchTiming for FR2-2
    beamSwitchTiming-v1710                      SEQUENCE {
        scs-480kHz                                  ENUMERATED {sym56, sym112, sym192, sym896, sym1344}        OPTIONAL,
        scs-960kHz                                  ENUMERATED {sym112, sym224, sym384, sym1792, sym2688}      OPTIONAL
    }                                                                                                          OPTIONAL,
    -- R1-24 feature: Extend beamSwitchTiming-r16 for FR2-2
    beamSwitchTiming-r17                        SEQUENCE {
        scs-480kHz-r17                              ENUMERATED {sym896, sym1344}                               OPTIONAL,
        scs-960kHz-r17                              ENUMERATED {sym1792, sym2688}                              OPTIONAL
    }                                                                                                          OPTIONAL,
    -- R1-24 feature: Extend beamReportTiming for FR2-2
    beamReportTiming-v1710                      SEQUENCE {
        scs-480kHz-r17                              ENUMERATED {sym56, sym112, sym224}                         OPTIONAL,
        scs-960kHz-r17                              ENUMERATED {sym112, sym224, sym448}                        OPTIONAL
    }                                                                                                          OPTIONAL,
    -- R1-24 feature:    Extend maximum number of RX/TX beam switch DL for FR2-2
    maxNumberRxTxBeamSwitchDL-v1710             SEQUENCE {
        scs-480kHz-r17                              ENUMERATED {n2, n4, n7}                                    OPTIONAL,
        scs-960kHz-r17                              ENUMERATED {n1, n2, n4, n7}                                OPTIONAL
    }                                                                                                          OPTIONAL
    ]],
    [[
    -- R1-23-1-4a:	Semi-persistent/aperiodic capability value report
    srs-PortReportSP-AP-r17                     ENUMERATED {supported}                                         OPTIONAL,
    maxNumberRxBeam-v1720                       INTEGER (9..12)                                                OPTIONAL,
    -- R1-23-6-5	Support implicit configuration of RS(s) with two TCI states for beam failure detection
    sfn-ImplicitRS-twoTCI-r17                   ENUMERATED {supported}                                         OPTIONAL,
    -- R1-23-6-6	QCL-TypeD collision handling with CORESET with 2 TCI states
    sfn-QCL-TypeD-Collision-twoTCI-r17          ENUMERATED {supported}                                         OPTIONAL,
    -- R1-23-7-1c	Basic Features of CSI Enhancement for Multi-TRP - number of CPUs
    mTRP-CSI-numCPU-r17                         ENUMERATED {n2, n3, n4}                                        OPTIONAL
    ]],
    [[
    supportRepNumPDSCH-TDRA-DCI-1-2-r17         ENUMERATED {n2, n3, n4, n5, n6, n7, n8, n16}                   OPTIONAL
    ]],
    [[
    codebookParametersetype2DopplerCSI-r18      CodebookParametersetype2DopplerCSI-r18                         OPTIONAL,
    codebookParametersfetype2DopplerCSI-r18     CodebookParametersfetype2DopplerCSI-r18                        OPTIONAL,
    codebookParametersetype2CJT-r18             CodebookParametersetype2CJT-r18                                OPTIONAL,
    codebookParametersfetype2CJT-r18            CodebookParametersfetype2CJT-r18                               OPTIONAL,
    codebookComboParametersCJT-r18              CodebookComboParametersCJT-r18                                 OPTIONAL,
    codebookParametersHARQ-ACK-PUSCH-r18        CodebookParametersHARQ-ACK-PUSCH-r18                           OPTIONAL,
    -- R1 40-1-1: Unified TCI with joint DL/UL TCI update for single-DCI based intra-cell multi-TRP with single activated TCI
    -- codepoint per CC
    tci-JointTCI-UpdateSingleActiveTCI-PerCC-r18 SEQUENCE {
        maxNumberConfigJointTCIPerCC-PerBWP-r18     ENUMERATED {n8,n12,n16,n24,n32,n48,n64,n128},
        maxNumberActiveJointTCI-AcrossCC-r18        ENUMERATED {n2,n4,n6,n8,n16,n32}
    }                                                                                                          OPTIONAL,
    -- R1 40-1-1a: Unified TCI with joint DL/UL TCI update for single-DCI based intra-cell multi-TRP with multiple activated TCI
    -- codepoints per CC
    tci-JointTCI-UpdateMultiActiveTCI-PerCC-r18 SEQUENCE {
        tci-StateInd-r18                            ENUMERATED {withAssignment, withoutAssignment},
        maxNumberActiveJointTCI-PerCC-r18           INTEGER (2..8)
    }                                                                                                          OPTIONAL,
    -- R1 40-1-1c: DCI format 1_1 and if supported 1_2 configured with TCI selection field
    tci-SelectionDCI-r18                        ENUMERATED {supported}                                         OPTIONAL,
    -- R1 40-1-2: Unified TCI with separate DL/UL TCI update for single-DCI based intra-cell multi-TRP with single activated TCI
    -- codepoint per CC
    tci-SeparateTCI-UpdateSingleActiveTCI-PerCC-r18 SEQUENCE {
        maxNumConfigDL-TCI-PerCC-PerBWP-r18         ENUMERATED {n4, n8, n12, n16, n24, n32, n48, n64, n128},
        maxNumConfigUL-TCI-PerCC-PerBWP-r18         ENUMERATED {n4, n8, n12, n16, n24, n32, n48, n64},
        maxNumActiveDL-TCI-AcrossCC-r18             ENUMERATED {n2, n4, n8, n16},
        maxNumActiveUL-TCI-AcrossCC-r18             ENUMERATED {n2, n4, n8, n16}
    }                                                                                                          OPTIONAL,
    -- R1 40-1-2a: Unified TCI with separate DL/UL TCI update for single-DCI based intra-cell multi-TRP with multiple
    -- activated TCI codepoints per CC
    tci-SeparateTCI-UpdateMultiActiveTCI-PerCC-r18  SEQUENCE {
        maxNumActiveDL-TCI-AcrossCC-r18             ENUMERATED {n2, n4, n8, n16},
        maxNumActiveUL-TCI-AcrossCC-r18             ENUMERATED {n2, n4, n8, n16}
    }                                                                                                          OPTIONAL,
    -- R1 40-1-3: Per aperiodic CSI-RS resource/resource set configuration for TCI selection in S-DCI based MTRP
    tci-SelectionAperiodicCSI-RS-r18            ENUMERATED {perResource, perResourceSet, both}                 OPTIONAL,
    -- R1 40-1-3a: Per aperiodic CSI-RS resource/resource set configuration for TCI selection in M-DCI based MTRP
    tci-SelectionAperiodicCSI-RS-M-DCI-r18      ENUMERATED {perResource, perResourceSet, both}                 OPTIONAL,
    -- R1 40-1-4: Two TCI states for CJT Tx scheme for PDSCH
    twoTCI-StatePDSCH-CJT-TxScheme-r18          ENUMERATED {cjtSchemeA, cjtSchemeB, both}                      OPTIONAL,
    -- R1 40-1-7: Unified TCI with joint DL/UL TCI update for multi-DCI based multi-TRP with single activated TCI
    -- codepoint per CORESETPoolIndex per CC
    tci-JointTCI-UpdateSingleActiveTCI-PerCC-PerCORESET-r18  SEQUENCE {
        mTRP-Operation-r18                                        ENUMERATED {intraCell, intraCellAndInterCell},
        maxNumberConfigJointTCIPerCC-PerBWP-r18                   ENUMERATED {n8,n12,n16,n24,n32,n48,n64,n128},
        maxNumberActiveJointTCIAcrossCC-PerCORESET-r18            ENUMERATED {n1,n2,n4,n8,n16}
    }                                                                                                          OPTIONAL,
    -- R1 40-1-7a: Unified TCI with joint DL/UL TCI update for multi-DCI based multi-TRP with multiple activated TCI
    -- codepoints per CORESETPoolIndex per CC
    tci-JointTCI-UpdateMultiActiveTCI-PerCC-PerCORESET-r18        INTEGER (2..8)                               OPTIONAL,
    -- R1 40-1-8: TRP-specific BFR with unified TCI framework with Unified TCI
    tci-TRP-BFR-r18                             ENUMERATED {supported}                                         OPTIONAL,
    -- R1 40-1-9: Unified TCI with separate DL/UL TCI update for multi-DCI based multi-TRP with single activated TCI
    -- codepoint per CORESETPoolIndex per CC
    tci-SeparateTCI-UpdateSingleActiveTCI-PerCC-PerCORESET-r18  SEQUENCE {
        mTRP-Operation-r18                          ENUMERATED {intraCell, intraCellAndInterCell},
        maxNumConfigDL-TCI-PerCC-PerBWP-r18         ENUMERATED {n8, n12, n16, n24, n32, n48, n64, n128},
        maxNumConfigUL-TCI-PerCC-PerBWP-r18         ENUMERATED {n8, n12, n16, n24, n32, n48, n64},
        maxNumActiveDL-TCI-AcrossCC-r18             ENUMERATED {n1, n2, n4, n8, n16},
        maxNumActiveUL-TCI-AcrossCC-r18             ENUMERATED {n1, n2, n4, n8, n16}
    }                                                                                                          OPTIONAL,
    -- R1 40-1-9a: Unified TCI with separate DL/UL TCI update for multi-DCI based multi-TRP with multiple activated TCI
    -- codepoints per CORESETPoolIndex per CC
    tci-SeparateTCI-UpdateMultiActiveTCI-PerCC-PerCORESET-r18   SEQUENCE {
        maxNumConfigDL-TCI-PerCC-PerBWP-r18         INTEGER (1..8),
        maxNumConfigUL-TCI-PerCC-PerBWP-r18         INTEGER (1..8)
    }                                                                                                          OPTIONAL,
    -- R1 40-1-12: Common multi-CC TCI state ID update and activation for single-DCI based multi-TRP
    commonTCI-SingleDCI-r18                     INTEGER (1..4)                                                 OPTIONAL,
    -- R1 40-1-13: Common multi-CC TCI state ID update and activation for multi-DCI based multi-TRP
    commonTCI-MultiDCI-r18                      INTEGER (1..4)                                                 OPTIONAL,
    -- R1 40-1-14: Two PHR reporting for STx2P
    twoPHR-Reporting-r18                        ENUMERATED {supported}                                         OPTIONAL,
    -- R1 40-2-3: TAG ID indication via absolute TA command MAC CE
    spCell-TAG-Ind-r18                          ENUMERATED {supported}                                         OPTIONAL,
    -- R1 40-2-4: PDCCH order sent by one TRP triggers RACH procedure (specifically PRACH) towards a different TRP based on CFRA for
    -- inter-cell
    interCellCrossTRP-PDCCH-OrderCFRA-r18       ENUMERATED {supported}                                         OPTIONAL,
    -- R1 40-2-4a: PDCCH order sent by one TRP triggers RACH procedure (specifically PRACH) towards a different TRP based on CFRA for
    -- intra-cell
    intraCellCrossTRP-PDCCH-OrderCFRA-r18       ENUMERATED {supported}                                         OPTIONAL,
    -- R1 40-2-9: Overlapping UL transmission reduction
    overlapUL-TransReduction-r18                ENUMERATED {supported}                                         OPTIONAL,
    -- R1 40-3-2-12: Supported maximum periodicity of CMR when configured as periodic CSI-RS
    maxPeriodicityCMR-r18                       ENUMERATED {sl4, sl5, sl8, sl10, sl20}                         OPTIONAL,
    -- R1 40-3-3-1: TDCP (Time Domain Channel Properties) report
    tdcp-Report-r18                             SEQUENCE {
        valueX-r18                                  INTEGER (1..2),
        maxNumberActiveResource-r18                 INTEGER (2..32)
    }                                                                                                          OPTIONAL,
    -- R1 40-3-3-5: Number of CSI-RS resources for TDCP
    tdcp-Resource-r18                           SEQUENCE {
        maxNumberConfigPerCC-r18                    ENUMERATED {n2,n4,n6,n8,n10,n12},
        maxNumberConfigAcrossCC-r18                 INTEGER (1..32),
        maxNumberSimultaneousPerCC-r18              ENUMERATED {n2, n4, n6, n8, n12, n16, n20, n24, n28, n32}
    }                                                                                                          OPTIONAL,
    -- R1 40-3-1-24: Timeline for regular eType-II-CJT CSI, or for port selection FeType-II-CJT CSI
    timelineRelax-CJT-CSI-r18                   ENUMERATED {n0,n2}                                             OPTIONAL,
    -- R1 40-4-11: Joint configuration of Rel.18 DMRS ports and Rel.18 dynamic switching between DFT-S-OFDM and CP-OFDM for PUSCH
    jointConfigDMRSPortDynamicSwitching-r18     ENUMERATED {supported}                                         OPTIONAL,
    -- R1 40-5-1: SRS comb offset hopping
    srs-combOffsetHopping-r18                   ENUMERATED {supported}                                         OPTIONAL,
    -- R1 40-5-1a: Comb offset hopping time-domain behavior when repetition factor R>1
    srs-combOffsetInTime-r18                    ENUMERATED {srs, rsrs, both}                                   OPTIONAL,
    -- R1 40-5-1b: SRS comb offset hopping combined with group/sequence hopping
    srs-combOffsetCombinedGroupSequence-r18     ENUMERATED {supported}                                         OPTIONAL,
    -- R1 40-5-1c: Comb offset hopping within a subset
    srs-combOffsetHoppingWithinSubset-r18       ENUMERATED {supported}                                         OPTIONAL,
    -- R1 40-5-2: SRS cyclic shift hopping
    srs-cyclicShiftHopping-r18                  ENUMERATED {supported}                                         OPTIONAL,
    -- R1 40-5-2a: Smaller cyclic shift granularity for cyclic shift hopping
    srs-cyclicShiftHoppingSmallGranularity-r18  ENUMERATED {supported}                                         OPTIONAL,
    -- R1 40-5-2b: SRS cyclic shift hopping combined with group/sequence hopping
    srs-cyclicShiftCombinedGroupSequence-r18    ENUMERATED {supported}                                         OPTIONAL,
    -- R1 40-5-2c: Cyclic shift hopping within a subset
    cyclicShiftHoppingWithinSubset-r18          ENUMERATED {supported}                                         OPTIONAL,
    -- R1 40-5-3: SRS cyclic shift hopping combined with SRS comb offset hopping
    srs-cyclicShiftCombinedCombOffset-r18       ENUMERATED {supported}                                         OPTIONAL,

    -- R1 40-6-1-1: 2 PTRS ports for single-DCI based STx2P SDM scheme for PUSCH-codebook
    pusch-CB-2PTRS-SingleDCI-STx2P-SDM-r18      ENUMERATED {supported}                                         OPTIONAL,
    -- R1 40-6-1a-1: 2 PTRS ports for single-DCI based STx2P SDM scheme for PUSCH-noncodebook
    pusch-NonCB-2PTRS-SingleDCI-STx2P-SDM-r18   ENUMERATED {supported}                                         OPTIONAL,
    -- R1 40-6-1b: Association between CSI-RS and SRS for noncodebook single-DCI based STx2P SDM scheme for PUSCH
    pusch-NonCB-SingleDCI-STx2P-SDM-CSI-RS-SRS-r18 SEQUENCE {
        maxNumberPeriodicSRS-Resource-PerBWP-r18      INTEGER (1..8),
        maxNumberAperiodicSRS-Resource-PerBWP-r18     INTEGER (1..8),
        maxNumberSemiPersistentSRS-ResourcePerBWP-r18 INTEGER (0..8),
        valueY-SRS-ResourceAssociate-r18              INTEGER (1..16),
        valueX-CSI-RS-ResourceAssociate-r18           INTEGER (1..2)
    }                                                                                                          OPTIONAL,
    -- R1 40-6-3b-1: Associated CSI-RS resources for noncodebook multi-DCI based STx2P PUSCH+PUSCH
    twoPUSCH-NonCB-Multi-DCI-STx2P-CSI-RS-Resource-r18  SEQUENCE {
        maxNumberPeriodicSRS-r18                      INTEGER (1..8),
        maxNumberAperiodicSRS-r18                     INTEGER (1..8),
        maxNumberSemiPersistentSRS-r18                INTEGER (0..8),
        simultaneousSRS-PerCC-r18                     INTEGER (1..16),
        simultaneousCSI-RS-NonCB-r18                  INTEGER (1..2)
    }                                                                                                          OPTIONAL,
    -- R1 40-6-1-2: New UL DMRS port entry for single-DCI based SDM scheme for Rel-15 DMRS port and/or Rel-18 DMRS port
    dmrs-PortEntrySingleDCI-SDM-r18             ENUMERATED {supported}                                         OPTIONAL,
    -- R1 40-6-2-1: 2 PTRS ports for single-DCI based STx2P SFN scheme for PUSCH-codebook
    pusch-CB-2PTRS-SingleDCI-STx2P-SFN-r18      ENUMERATED {supported}                                         OPTIONAL,
    -- R1 40-6-2a-1: 2 PTRS ports for single-DCI based STx2P SFN scheme for PUSCH-codebook
    pusch-NonCB-2PTRS-SingleDCI-STx2P-SFN-r18   ENUMERATED {supported}                                         OPTIONAL,
    -- R1 40-6-2b: Association between CSI-RS and SRS for noncodebook single-DCI based STx2P SFN scheme for PUSCH
    pusch-NonCB-SingleDCI-STx2P-SFN-CSI-RS-SRS-r18 SEQUENCE {
        maxNumberPeriodicSRS-Resource-PerBWP-r18      INTEGER (1..8),
        maxNumberAperiodicSRS-Resource-PerBWP-r18     INTEGER (1..8),
        maxNumberSemiPersistentSRS-ResourcePerBWP-r18 INTEGER (0..8),
        valueY-SRS-ResourceAssociate-r18              INTEGER (1..16),
        valueX-CSI-RS-ResourceAssociate-r18           INTEGER (1..2)
    }                                                                                                          OPTIONAL,
    -- R1 40-6-3c: Codebook multi-DCI based STx2P PUSCH+PUSCH - Fully overlapping PUSCHs in time and fully overlapping in frequency
    twoPUSCH-CB-MultiDCI-STx2P-FullTimeFullFreqOverlap-r18       ENUMERATED {supported}                        OPTIONAL,
    -- R1 40-6-3d: Codebook multi-DCI based STx2P PUSCH+PUSCH - Fully overlapping PUSCHs in time and partially overlapping in frequency
    twoPUSCH-CB-MultiDCI-STx2P-FullTimePartialFreqOverlap-r18    ENUMERATED {supported}                        OPTIONAL,
    -- R1 40-6-3e: Codebook multi-DCI based STx2P PUSCH+PUSCH - Partially overlapping PUSCHs in time and fully overlapping in frequency
    twoPUSCH-CB-MultiDCI-STx2P-PartialTimeFullFreqOverlap-r18    ENUMERATED {supported}                        OPTIONAL,
    -- R1 40-6-3f: Codebook multi-DCI based STx2P PUSCH+PUSCH - Partially overlapping PUSCHs in time, partially overlapping in frequency
    twoPUSCH-CB-MultiDCI-STx2P-PartialTimePartialFreqOverlap-r18 ENUMERATED {supported}                        OPTIONAL,
    -- R1 40-6-3g: Codebook multi-DCI based STx2P PUSCH+PUSCH - Partially overlapping PUSCHs in time, partially or non-overlapping
    -- in frequency
    twoPUSCH-CB-MultiDCI-STx2P-PartialTimeNonFreqOverlap-r18     ENUMERATED {supported}                        OPTIONAL,
    -- R1 40-6-3h: Codebook multi-DCI based STx2P PUSCH+PUSCH for CG+CG
    twoPUSCH-CB-MultiDCI-STx2P-CG-CG-r18                         ENUMERATED {supported}                        OPTIONAL,
    -- R1 40-6-3i: Codebook multi-DCI based STx2P PUSCH+PUSCH for DG+CG
    twoPUSCH-CB-MultiDCI-STx2P-CG-DG-r18                         ENUMERATED {supported}                        OPTIONAL,
    -- R1 40-6-3j: Noncodebook multi-DCI based STx2P PUSCH+PUSCH - Fully overlapping PUSCHs in time and fully overlapping in frequency
    twoPUSCH-NonCB-MultiDCI-STx2P-FullTimeFullFreqOverlap-r18    ENUMERATED {supported}                        OPTIONAL,
    -- R1 40-6-3k: Noncodebook multi-DCI based STx2P PUSCH+PUSCH - Fully overlapping PUSCHs in time and partially overlapping in
    -- frequency
    twoPUSCH-NonCB-MultiDCI-STx2P-FullTimePartialFreqOverlap-r18 ENUMERATED {supported}                        OPTIONAL,
    -- R1 40-6-3l: Noncodebook multi-DCI based STx2P PUSCH+PUSCH - Partially overlapping PUSCHs in time and fully overlapping in
    -- frequency
    twoPUSCH-NonCB-MultiDCI-STx2P-PartialTimeFullFreqOverlap-r18 ENUMERATED {supported}                        OPTIONAL,
    -- R1 40-6-3m: Noncodebook multi-DCI based STx2P PUSCH+PUSCH - Partially overlapping PUSCHs in time, partially overlapping in
    -- frequency
    twoPUSCH-NonCB-MultiDCI-STx2P-PartialTimePartialFreqOverlap-r18 ENUMERATED {supported}                     OPTIONAL,
    -- R1 40-6-3n: Noncodebook multi-DCI based STx2P PUSCH+PUSCH - Partially overlapping PUSCHs in time, non-overlapping in frequency
    twoPUSCH-NonCB-MultiDCI-STx2P-PartialTimeNonFreqOverlap-r18  ENUMERATED {supported}                        OPTIONAL,
    -- R1 40-6-3o: Noncodebook multi-DCI based STx2P PUSCH+PUSCH for CG+CG
    twoPUSCH-NonCB-MultiDCI-STx2P-CG-CG-r18                      ENUMERATED {supported}                        OPTIONAL,
    -- R1 40-6-3p: Noncodebook multi-DCI based STx2P PUSCH+PUSCH for DG+CG
    twoPUSCH-NonCB-MultiDCI-STx2P-CG-DG-r18                      ENUMERATED {supported}                        OPTIONAL,
    -- R1 40-6-4a: Dynamic indication of repetition number for SFN scheme for PUCCH
    pucch-RepetitionDynamicIndicationSFN-r18                     ENUMERATED {supported}                        OPTIONAL,
    -- R1 40-6-5: Support grouped-based beam reporting for STx2P
    groupBeamReporting-STx2P-r18                                 SEQUENCE {
        groupL1-RSRP-Reporting-r18                                   ENUMERATED {jointULandDL, ulOnly, both},
        maxNumberBeamGroups-r18                                      INTEGER (1..4),
        maxNumberResWithinSlotAcrossCC-r18                           ENUMERATED {n2,n3,n4,n8,n16,n32,n64},
        maxNumberResAcrossCC-r18                                     ENUMERATED {n8,n16,n32,n64,n128}
    }                                                                                                          OPTIONAL
    ]],
    [[
    -- R1 40-4-1k: Simultaneous Configuration of Rel-18 DL DMRS and DCI format 1_3
    simulConfigDMRS-DCI-1-3-r18                                  ENUMERATED {supported}                        OPTIONAL
    ]]
}

MIMO-ParametersPerBand-v17b0 ::=        SEQUENCE {
    -- R1  23-1-1b    Unified TCI with joint DL/UL TCI update for intra- and inter-cell beam management with more than one MAC-CE
    unifiedJointTCI-multiMAC-CE-v17b0       SEQUENCE{
        minBeamApplicationTimeJointTCI-v17b0    CHOICE {
            fr1-v17b0                               SEQUENCE {
                scs-15kHz-v17b0                         ENUMERATED {sym1, sym2, sym4, sym7, sym14, sym28, sym42, sym56, sym70} OPTIONAL,
                scs-30kHz-v17b0                         ENUMERATED {sym1, sym2, sym4, sym7, sym14, sym28, sym42, sym56, sym70} OPTIONAL,
                scs-60kHz-v17b0                         ENUMERATED {sym1, sym2, sym4, sym7, sym14, sym28, sym42, sym56, sym70} OPTIONAL
            },
            fr2-v17b0                               SEQUENCE {
                scs-60kHz-v17b0                         ENUMERATED {sym1, sym2, sym4, sym7, sym14, sym28, sym42, sym56, sym70,
                                                          sym84, sym98, sym112, sym224, sym336}                                OPTIONAL,
                scs-120kHz-v17b0                        ENUMERATED {sym1, sym2, sym4, sym7, sym14, sym28, sym42, sym56, sym70,
                                                          sym84, sym98, sym112, sym224, sym336}                                OPTIONAL
            }
        },
        maxNumMAC-CE-PerCC-v17b0                        ENUMERATED {n2, n3, n4, n5, n6, n7, n8}
    }                                                                                                                          OPTIONAL,
    -- R1  23-10-1b    Unified TCI with separate DL/UL TCI update for intra-cell beam management with more than one MAC-CE
    unifiedSeparateTCI-multiMAC-CE-v17b0    SEQUENCE{
        minBeamApplicationTimeSeparateTCI-v17b0 CHOICE {
            fr1-v17b0                               SEQUENCE {
                scs-15kHz-v17b0                         ENUMERATED {sym1, sym2, sym4, sym7, sym14, sym28, sym42, sym56, sym70} OPTIONAL,
                scs-30kHz-v17b0                         ENUMERATED {sym1, sym2, sym4, sym7, sym14, sym28, sym42, sym56, sym70} OPTIONAL,
                scs-60kHz-v17b0                         ENUMERATED {sym1, sym2, sym4, sym7, sym14, sym28, sym42, sym56, sym70} OPTIONAL
            },
            fr2-v17b0                               SEQUENCE {
                scs-60kHz-v17b0                         ENUMERATED {sym1, sym2, sym4, sym7, sym14, sym28, sym42, sym56, sym70,
                                                          sym84, sym98, sym112, sym224, sym336}                                OPTIONAL,
                scs-120kHz-v17b0                        ENUMERATED {sym1, sym2, sym4, sym7, sym14, sym28, sym42, sym56, sym70,
                                                          sym84, sym98, sym112, sym224, sym336}                                OPTIONAL
            }
        },
        maxActivatedDL-TCIPerCC-v17b0                 INTEGER (2..8),
        maxActivatedUL-TCIPerCC-v17b0                 INTEGER (2..8)
    }                                                                                                                          OPTIONAL
}

DummyG ::=                          SEQUENCE {
    maxNumberSSB-CSI-RS-ResourceOneTx   ENUMERATED {n8, n16, n32, n64},
    maxNumberSSB-CSI-RS-ResourceTwoTx   ENUMERATED {n0, n4, n8, n16, n32, n64},
    supportedCSI-RS-Density             ENUMERATED {one, three, oneAndThree}
}

BeamManagementSSB-CSI-RS ::=        SEQUENCE {
    maxNumberSSB-CSI-RS-ResourceOneTx   ENUMERATED {n0, n8, n16, n32, n64},
    maxNumberCSI-RS-Resource            ENUMERATED {n0, n4, n8, n16, n32, n64},
    maxNumberCSI-RS-ResourceTwoTx       ENUMERATED {n0, n4, n8, n16, n32, n64},
    supportedCSI-RS-Density             ENUMERATED {one, three, oneAndThree}                                       OPTIONAL,
    maxNumberAperiodicCSI-RS-Resource   ENUMERATED {n0, n1, n4, n8, n16, n32, n64}
}

DummyH ::=                          SEQUENCE {
    burstLength                         INTEGER (1..2),
    maxSimultaneousResourceSetsPerCC    INTEGER (1..8),
    maxConfiguredResourceSetsPerCC      INTEGER (1..64),
    maxConfiguredResourceSetsAllCC      INTEGER (1..128)
}

CSI-RS-ForTracking ::=              SEQUENCE {
    maxBurstLength                      INTEGER (1..2),
    maxSimultaneousResourceSetsPerCC    INTEGER (1..8),
    maxConfiguredResourceSetsPerCC      INTEGER (1..64),
    maxConfiguredResourceSetsAllCC      INTEGER (1..256)
}

CSI-RS-IM-ReceptionForFeedback ::=              SEQUENCE {
    maxConfigNumberNZP-CSI-RS-PerCC                 INTEGER (1..64),
    maxConfigNumberPortsAcrossNZP-CSI-RS-PerCC      INTEGER (2..256),
    maxConfigNumberCSI-IM-PerCC                     ENUMERATED {n1, n2, n4, n8, n16, n32},
    maxNumberSimultaneousNZP-CSI-RS-PerCC           INTEGER (1..64),
    totalNumberPortsSimultaneousNZP-CSI-RS-PerCC    INTEGER (2..256)
}

CSI-RS-ProcFrameworkForSRS ::=                  SEQUENCE {
    maxNumberPeriodicSRS-AssocCSI-RS-PerBWP         INTEGER (1..4),
    maxNumberAperiodicSRS-AssocCSI-RS-PerBWP        INTEGER (1..4),
    maxNumberSP-SRS-AssocCSI-RS-PerBWP              INTEGER (0..4),
    simultaneousSRS-AssocCSI-RS-PerCC               INTEGER (1..8)
}

CSI-ReportFramework ::=                         SEQUENCE {
    maxNumberPeriodicCSI-PerBWP-ForCSI-Report       INTEGER (1..4),
    maxNumberAperiodicCSI-PerBWP-ForCSI-Report      INTEGER (1..4),
    maxNumberSemiPersistentCSI-PerBWP-ForCSI-Report INTEGER (0..4),
    maxNumberPeriodicCSI-PerBWP-ForBeamReport       INTEGER (1..4),
    maxNumberAperiodicCSI-PerBWP-ForBeamReport      INTEGER (1..4),
    maxNumberAperiodicCSI-triggeringStatePerCC      ENUMERATED {n3, n7, n15, n31, n63, n128},
    maxNumberSemiPersistentCSI-PerBWP-ForBeamReport INTEGER (0..4),
    simultaneousCSI-ReportsPerCC                    INTEGER (1..8)
}

CSI-ReportFrameworkExt-r16 ::=                      SEQUENCE {
    maxNumberAperiodicCSI-PerBWP-ForCSI-ReportExt-r16   INTEGER (5..8)
}

PTRS-DensityRecommendationDL ::=    SEQUENCE {
    frequencyDensity1                   INTEGER (1..276),
    frequencyDensity2                   INTEGER (1..276),
    timeDensity1                        INTEGER (0..29),
    timeDensity2                        INTEGER (0..29),
    timeDensity3                        INTEGER (0..29)
}

PTRS-DensityRecommendationUL ::=    SEQUENCE {
    frequencyDensity1                   INTEGER (1..276),
    frequencyDensity2                   INTEGER (1..276),
    timeDensity1                        INTEGER (0..29),
    timeDensity2                        INTEGER (0..29),
    timeDensity3                        INTEGER (0..29),
    sampleDensity1                      INTEGER (1..276),
    sampleDensity2                      INTEGER (1..276),
    sampleDensity3                      INTEGER (1..276),
    sampleDensity4                      INTEGER (1..276),
    sampleDensity5                      INTEGER (1..276)
}

SpatialRelations ::=                    SEQUENCE {
    maxNumberConfiguredSpatialRelations     ENUMERATED {n4, n8, n16, n32, n64, n96},
    maxNumberActiveSpatialRelations         ENUMERATED {n1, n2, n4, n8, n14},
    additionalActiveSpatialRelationPUCCH    ENUMERATED {supported}                              OPTIONAL,
    maxNumberDL-RS-QCL-TypeD                ENUMERATED {n1, n2, n4, n8, n14}
}

DummyI ::=               SEQUENCE {
    supportedSRS-TxPortSwitch           ENUMERATED {t1r2, t1r4, t2r4, t1r4-t2r4, tr-equal},
    txSwitchImpactToRx                  ENUMERATED {true}                                       OPTIONAL
}

CSI-MultiTRP-SupportedCombinations-r17 ::= SEQUENCE {
    maxNumTx-Ports-r17                         ENUMERATED {n2, n4, n8, n12, n16, n24, n32},
    maxTotalNumCMR-r17                         INTEGER (2..64),
    maxTotalNumTx-PortsNZP-CSI-RS-r17          INTEGER (2..256)
}

-- TAG-MIMO-PARAMETERSPERBAND-STOP
-- ASN1STOP



–	ModulationOrder
The IE ModulationOrder is used to convey the maximum supported modulation order.
ModulationOrder information element
-- ASN1START
-- TAG-MODULATIONORDER-START

ModulationOrder ::= ENUMERATED {bpsk-halfpi, bpsk, qpsk, qam16, qam64, qam256}

-- TAG-MODULATIONORDER-STOP
-- ASN1STOP

–	MRDC-Parameters
The IE MRDC-Parameters contains the band combination parameters specific to MR-DC for a given MR-DC band combination.
MRDC-Parameters information element
-- ASN1START
-- TAG-MRDC-PARAMETERS-START

MRDC-Parameters ::= SEQUENCE {
    singleUL-Transmission               ENUMERATED {supported}              OPTIONAL,
    dynamicPowerSharingENDC             ENUMERATED {supported}              OPTIONAL,
    tdm-Pattern                         ENUMERATED {supported}              OPTIONAL,
    ul-SharingEUTRA-NR                  ENUMERATED {tdm, fdm, both}         OPTIONAL,
    ul-SwitchingTimeEUTRA-NR            ENUMERATED {type1, type2}           OPTIONAL,
    simultaneousRxTxInterBandENDC       ENUMERATED {supported}              OPTIONAL,
    asyncIntraBandENDC                  ENUMERATED {supported}              OPTIONAL,
    ...,
    [[
    dualPA-Architecture                 ENUMERATED {supported}              OPTIONAL,
    intraBandENDC-Support               ENUMERATED {non-contiguous, both}   OPTIONAL,
    ul-TimingAlignmentEUTRA-NR          ENUMERATED {required}               OPTIONAL
    ]]
}

MRDC-Parameters-v1580 ::= SEQUENCE {
	dynamicPowerSharingNEDC             ENUMERATED {supported}              OPTIONAL
}

MRDC-Parameters-v1590 ::=	SEQUENCE {
	interBandContiguousMRDC             ENUMERATED {supported}              OPTIONAL
}

MRDC-Parameters-v15g0 ::=   SEQUENCE {
    simultaneousRxTxInterBandENDCPerBandPair   SimultaneousRxTxPerBandPair  OPTIONAL
}

MRDC-Parameters-v15n0 ::= SEQUENCE {
    intraBandENDC-Support-UL            ENUMERATED {non-contiguous, both}   OPTIONAL
}

MRDC-Parameters-v1620 ::=    SEQUENCE {
    maxUplinkDutyCycle-interBandENDC-TDD-PC2-r16    SEQUENCE{
        eutra-TDD-Config0-r16    ENUMERATED {n20, n40, n50, n60, n70, n80, n90, n100}    OPTIONAL,
        eutra-TDD-Config1-r16    ENUMERATED {n20, n40, n50, n60, n70, n80, n90, n100}    OPTIONAL,
        eutra-TDD-Config2-r16    ENUMERATED {n20, n40, n50, n60, n70, n80, n90, n100}    OPTIONAL,
        eutra-TDD-Config3-r16    ENUMERATED {n20, n40, n50, n60, n70, n80, n90, n100}    OPTIONAL,
        eutra-TDD-Config4-r16    ENUMERATED {n20, n40, n50, n60, n70, n80, n90, n100}    OPTIONAL,
        eutra-TDD-Config5-r16    ENUMERATED {n20, n40, n50, n60, n70, n80, n90, n100}    OPTIONAL,
        eutra-TDD-Config6-r16    ENUMERATED {n20, n40, n50, n60, n70, n80, n90, n100}    OPTIONAL
    }                                                                                    OPTIONAL,
    -- R1 18-2 Single UL TX operation for TDD PCell in EN-DC
    tdm-restrictionTDD-endc-r16          ENUMERATED {supported}                          OPTIONAL,
    -- R1 18-2a Single UL TX operation for FDD PCell in EN-DC
    tdm-restrictionFDD-endc-r16          ENUMERATED {supported}                          OPTIONAL,
    --  R1 18-2b Support of HARQ-offset for SUO case1 in EN-DC with LTE TDD PCell for type 1 UE
    singleUL-HARQ-offsetTDD-PCell-r16    ENUMERATED {supported}                          OPTIONAL,
    --  R1 18-3 Dual Tx transmission for EN-DC with FDD PCell(TDM pattern for dual Tx UE)
    tdm-restrictionDualTX-FDD-endc-r16   ENUMERATED {supported}                          OPTIONAL
}

MRDC-Parameters-v1630 ::= SEQUENCE {
    -- R4 2-20 Maximum uplink duty cycle for FDD+TDD EN-DC power class 2
    maxUplinkDutyCycle-interBandENDC-FDD-TDD-PC2-r16  SEQUENCE {
        maxUplinkDutyCycle-FDD-TDD-EN-DC1-r16             ENUMERATED {n30, n40, n50, n60, n70, n80, n90, n100}    OPTIONAL,
        maxUplinkDutyCycle-FDD-TDD-EN-DC2-r16             ENUMERATED {n30, n40, n50, n60, n70, n80, n90, n100}    OPTIONAL
    }                                                                                                             OPTIONAL,

    -- R4 2-19 FDD-FDD or TDD-TDD inter-band MR-DC with overlapping or partially overlapping DL spectrum
    interBandMRDC-WithOverlapDL-Bands-r16       ENUMERATED {supported}                   OPTIONAL
}

MRDC-Parameters-v1700 ::=	SEQUENCE {
    condPSCellAdditionENDC-r17                  ENUMERATED {supported}                   OPTIONAL,
    scg-ActivationDeactivationENDC-r17          ENUMERATED {supported}                   OPTIONAL,
    scg-ActivationDeactivationResumeENDC-r17    ENUMERATED {supported}                   OPTIONAL
}

MRDC-Parameters-v1770 ::=	SEQUENCE {
    -- R4 26-1: Higher Power Limit CA DC
    higherPowerLimitMRDC-r17                    ENUMERATED {supported}                   OPTIONAL
}

MRDC-Parameters-v1790 ::= SEQUENCE {
    intraBandENDC-Support-v1790                 ENUMERATED {non-contiguous, both}        OPTIONAL,
    intraBandENDC-Support-UL-v1790              ENUMERATED {non-contiguous, both}        OPTIONAL
}

MRDC-Parameters-v1840 ::= SEQUENCE {
    intraBandENDC-NominalSpacing-r18            ENUMERATED {supported}                   OPTIONAL
}

-- TAG-MRDC-PARAMETERS-STOP
-- ASN1STOP


–	NCR-Parameters
The IE NCR-Parameters is used to indicate the UE capabilities supported by NCR-MT.
NCR-Parameters information element
-- ASN1START
-- TAG-NCR-PARAMETERS-START

NCR-Parameters-r18::=                   SEQUENCE {
    inactiveStateNCR-r18                    ENUMERATED {supported}                                  OPTIONAL,
    supportedNumberOfDRBs-NCR-r18           ENUMERATED {n1,n16}                                     OPTIONAL,
    dummy                                   ENUMERATED {supported}                                  OPTIONAL
}

-- TAG-NCR-PARAMETERS-STOP
-- ASN1STOP



–	NRDC-Parameters
The IE NRDC-Parameters contains parameters specific to NR-DC, i.e., which are not applicable to NR SA.
NRDC-Parameters information element
-- ASN1START
-- TAG-NRDC-PARAMETERS-START

NRDC-Parameters ::=                 SEQUENCE {
    measAndMobParametersNRDC            MeasAndMobParametersMRDC                    OPTIONAL,
    generalParametersNRDC               GeneralParametersMRDC-XDD-Diff              OPTIONAL,
    fdd-Add-UE-NRDC-Capabilities        UE-MRDC-CapabilityAddXDD-Mode               OPTIONAL,
    tdd-Add-UE-NRDC-Capabilities        UE-MRDC-CapabilityAddXDD-Mode               OPTIONAL,
    fr1-Add-UE-NRDC-Capabilities        UE-MRDC-CapabilityAddFRX-Mode               OPTIONAL,
    fr2-Add-UE-NRDC-Capabilities        UE-MRDC-CapabilityAddFRX-Mode               OPTIONAL,
    dummy2                              OCTET STRING                                OPTIONAL,
    dummy                               SEQUENCE {}                                 OPTIONAL
}

NRDC-Parameters-v1570 ::=           SEQUENCE {
    sfn-SyncNRDC                        ENUMERATED {supported}                      OPTIONAL
}

NRDC-Parameters-v15c0 ::=           SEQUENCE {
    pdcp-DuplicationSplitSRB            ENUMERATED {supported}                      OPTIONAL,
    pdcp-DuplicationSplitDRB            ENUMERATED {supported}                      OPTIONAL
}

NRDC-Parameters-v1610 ::=           SEQUENCE {
    measAndMobParametersNRDC-v1610      MeasAndMobParametersMRDC-v1610              OPTIONAL
}

NRDC-Parameters-v1700   ::=         SEQUENCE {
    f1c-OverNR-RRC-r17                  ENUMERATED {supported}                      OPTIONAL,
    measAndMobParametersNRDC-v1700      MeasAndMobParametersMRDC-v1700
}

-- TAG-NRDC-PARAMETERS-STOP
-- ASN1STOP


–	NTN-Parameters
The IE NTN-Parameters is used to convey the subset of UE Radio Access Capability Parameters that apply to NTN access when there is a difference compared to TN access.
NTN-Parameters information element
-- ASN1START
-- TAG-NTN-PARAMETERS-START

NTN-Parameters-r17 ::= SEQUENCE {
    inactiveStateNTN-r17                ENUMERATED {supported}                                OPTIONAL,
    ra-SDT-NTN-r17                      ENUMERATED {supported}                                OPTIONAL,
    srb-SDT-NTN-r17                     ENUMERATED {supported}                                OPTIONAL,
    measAndMobParametersNTN-r17         MeasAndMobParameters                                  OPTIONAL,
    mac-ParametersNTN-r17               MAC-Parameters                                        OPTIONAL,
    phy-ParametersNTN-r17               Phy-Parameters                                        OPTIONAL,
    fdd-Add-UE-NR-CapabilitiesNTN-r17   UE-NR-CapabilityAddXDD-Mode                           OPTIONAL,
    fr1-Add-UE-NR-CapabilitiesNTN-r17   UE-NR-CapabilityAddFRX-Mode                           OPTIONAL,
    ue-BasedPerfMeas-ParametersNTN-r17  UE-BasedPerfMeas-Parameters-r16                       OPTIONAL,
    son-ParametersNTN-r17               SON-Parameters-r16                                    OPTIONAL
}

NTN-Parameters-v1820 ::= SEQUENCE {
    fr2-Add-UE-NR-CapabilitiesNTN-r18   UE-NR-CapabilityAddFRX-Mode                           OPTIONAL
}

-- TAG-NTN-PARAMETERS-STOP
-- ASN1STOP



–	OLPC-SRS-Pos
The IE OLPC-SRS-Pos is used to convey OLPC SRS positioning related parameters specific for a certain band.
OLPC-SRS-Pos information element
-- ASN1START
-- TAG-OLPC-SRS-POS-START

OLPC-SRS-Pos-r16 ::=        SEQUENCE {
    olpc-SRS-PosBasedOnPRS-Serving-r16         ENUMERATED {supported}               OPTIONAL,
    olpc-SRS-PosBasedOnSSB-Neigh-r16           ENUMERATED {supported}               OPTIONAL,
    olpc-SRS-PosBasedOnPRS-Neigh-r16           ENUMERATED {supported}               OPTIONAL,
    maxNumberPathLossEstimatePerServing-r16    ENUMERATED {n1, n4, n8, n16}         OPTIONAL
}

--TAG-OLPC-SRS-POS-STOP
-- ASN1STOP

–	PDCP-Parameters
The IE PDCP-Parameters is used to convey capabilities related to PDCP.
PDCP-Parameters information element
-- ASN1START
-- TAG-PDCP-PARAMETERS-START

PDCP-Parameters ::=         SEQUENCE {
    supportedROHC-Profiles      SEQUENCE {
        profile0x0000               BOOLEAN,
        profile0x0001               BOOLEAN,
        profile0x0002               BOOLEAN,
        profile0x0003               BOOLEAN,
        profile0x0004               BOOLEAN,
        profile0x0006               BOOLEAN,
        profile0x0101               BOOLEAN,
        profile0x0102               BOOLEAN,
        profile0x0103               BOOLEAN,
        profile0x0104               BOOLEAN
    },
    maxNumberROHC-ContextSessions       ENUMERATED {cs2, cs4, cs8, cs12, cs16, cs24, cs32, cs48, cs64,
                                                cs128, cs256, cs512, cs1024, cs16384, spare2, spare1},
    uplinkOnlyROHC-Profiles             ENUMERATED {supported}      OPTIONAL,
    continueROHC-Context                ENUMERATED {supported}      OPTIONAL,
    outOfOrderDelivery                  ENUMERATED {supported}      OPTIONAL,
    shortSN                             ENUMERATED {supported}      OPTIONAL,
    pdcp-DuplicationSRB                 ENUMERATED {supported}      OPTIONAL,
    pdcp-DuplicationMCG-OrSCG-DRB       ENUMERATED {supported}      OPTIONAL,
    ...,
    [[
    drb-IAB-r16                         ENUMERATED {supported}      OPTIONAL,
    non-DRB-IAB-r16                     ENUMERATED {supported}      OPTIONAL,
    extendedDiscardTimer-r16            ENUMERATED {supported}      OPTIONAL,
    continueEHC-Context-r16             ENUMERATED {supported}      OPTIONAL,
    ehc-r16                             ENUMERATED {supported}      OPTIONAL,
    maxNumberEHC-Contexts-r16           ENUMERATED {cs2, cs4, cs8, cs16, cs32, cs64, cs128, cs256, cs512,
                                                    cs1024, cs2048, cs4096, cs8192, cs16384, cs32768, cs65536}    OPTIONAL,
    jointEHC-ROHC-Config-r16            ENUMERATED {supported}      OPTIONAL,
    pdcp-DuplicationMoreThanTwoRLC-r16  ENUMERATED {supported}      OPTIONAL
    ]],
    [[
    longSN-RedCap-r17                   ENUMERATED {supported}      OPTIONAL,
    udc-r17                             SEQUENCE {
        standardDictionary-r17              ENUMERATED {supported}  OPTIONAL,
        operatorDictionary-r17              SEQUENCE {
            versionOfDictionary-r17             INTEGER (0..15),
            associatedPLMN-ID-r17               PLMN-Identity
        }                                                           OPTIONAL,
        continueUDC-r17                     ENUMERATED {supported}  OPTIONAL,
        supportOfBufferSize-r17             ENUMERATED {kbyte4, kbyte8}  OPTIONAL
    }                                                               OPTIONAL
    ]],
    [[
    longSN-NCR-r18                      ENUMERATED {supported}      OPTIONAL,
    supportOfPDU-SetDiscard-r18         ENUMERATED {supported}      OPTIONAL,
    psi-BasedDiscard-r18                ENUMERATED {supported}      OPTIONAL,
    supportOfSN-GapReport-r18           ENUMERATED {supported}      OPTIONAL
    ]]
}

-- TAG-PDCP-PARAMETERS-STOP
-- ASN1STOP

–	PDCP-ParametersMRDC
The IE PDCP-ParametersMRDC is used to convey PDCP related capabilities for MR-DC.
PDCP-ParametersMRDC information element
-- ASN1START
-- TAG-PDCP-PARAMETERSMRDC-START

PDCP-ParametersMRDC ::=                 SEQUENCE {
    pdcp-DuplicationSplitSRB                ENUMERATED {supported}      OPTIONAL,
    pdcp-DuplicationSplitDRB                ENUMERATED {supported}      OPTIONAL
}

PDCP-ParametersMRDC-v1610 ::= SEQUENCE {
    scg-DRB-NR-IAB-r16                  ENUMERATED {supported}          OPTIONAL
}

-- TAG-PDCP-PARAMETERSMRDC-STOP
-- ASN1STOP

–	Phy-Parameters
The IE Phy-Parameters is used to convey the physical layer capabilities.
Phy-Parameters information element
-- ASN1START
-- TAG-PHY-PARAMETERS-START

Phy-Parameters ::=                  SEQUENCE {
    phy-ParametersCommon                Phy-ParametersCommon                        OPTIONAL,
    phy-ParametersXDD-Diff              Phy-ParametersXDD-Diff                      OPTIONAL,
    phy-ParametersFRX-Diff              Phy-ParametersFRX-Diff                      OPTIONAL,
    phy-ParametersFR1                   Phy-ParametersFR1                           OPTIONAL,
    phy-ParametersFR2                   Phy-ParametersFR2                           OPTIONAL
}

Phy-Parameters-v16a0 ::=            SEQUENCE {
    phy-ParametersCommon-v16a0          Phy-ParametersCommon-v16a0                  OPTIONAL
}

Phy-ParametersCommon ::=            SEQUENCE {
    csi-RS-CFRA-ForHO                   ENUMERATED {supported}                      OPTIONAL,
    dynamicPRB-BundlingDL               ENUMERATED {supported}                      OPTIONAL,
    sp-CSI-ReportPUCCH                  ENUMERATED {supported}                      OPTIONAL,
    sp-CSI-ReportPUSCH                  ENUMERATED {supported}                      OPTIONAL,
    nzp-CSI-RS-IntefMgmt                ENUMERATED {supported}                      OPTIONAL,
    type2-SP-CSI-Feedback-LongPUCCH     ENUMERATED {supported}                      OPTIONAL,
    precoderGranularityCORESET          ENUMERATED {supported}                      OPTIONAL,
    dynamicHARQ-ACK-Codebook            ENUMERATED {supported}                      OPTIONAL,
    semiStaticHARQ-ACK-Codebook         ENUMERATED {supported}                      OPTIONAL,
    spatialBundlingHARQ-ACK             ENUMERATED {supported}                      OPTIONAL,
    dynamicBetaOffsetInd-HARQ-ACK-CSI   ENUMERATED {supported}                      OPTIONAL,
    pucch-Repetition-F1-3-4             ENUMERATED {supported}                      OPTIONAL,
    ra-Type0-PUSCH                      ENUMERATED {supported}                      OPTIONAL,
    dynamicSwitchRA-Type0-1-PDSCH       ENUMERATED {supported}                      OPTIONAL,
    dynamicSwitchRA-Type0-1-PUSCH       ENUMERATED {supported}                      OPTIONAL,
    pdsch-MappingTypeA                  ENUMERATED {supported}                      OPTIONAL,
    pdsch-MappingTypeB                  ENUMERATED {supported}                      OPTIONAL,
    interleavingVRB-ToPRB-PDSCH         ENUMERATED {supported}                      OPTIONAL,
    interSlotFreqHopping-PUSCH          ENUMERATED {supported}                      OPTIONAL,
    type1-PUSCH-RepetitionMultiSlots    ENUMERATED {supported}                      OPTIONAL,
    type2-PUSCH-RepetitionMultiSlots    ENUMERATED {supported}                      OPTIONAL,
    pusch-RepetitionMultiSlots          ENUMERATED {supported}                      OPTIONAL,
    pdsch-RepetitionMultiSlots          ENUMERATED {supported}                      OPTIONAL,
    downlinkSPS                         ENUMERATED {supported}                      OPTIONAL,
    configuredUL-GrantType1             ENUMERATED {supported}                      OPTIONAL,
    configuredUL-GrantType2             ENUMERATED {supported}                      OPTIONAL,
    pre-EmptIndication-DL               ENUMERATED {supported}                      OPTIONAL,
    cbg-TransIndication-DL              ENUMERATED {supported}                      OPTIONAL,
    cbg-TransIndication-UL              ENUMERATED {supported}                      OPTIONAL,
    cbg-FlushIndication-DL              ENUMERATED {supported}                      OPTIONAL,
    dynamicHARQ-ACK-CodeB-CBG-Retx-DL   ENUMERATED {supported}                      OPTIONAL,
    rateMatchingResrcSetSemi-Static     ENUMERATED {supported}                      OPTIONAL,
    rateMatchingResrcSetDynamic         ENUMERATED {supported}                      OPTIONAL,
    bwp-SwitchingDelay                  ENUMERATED {type1, type2}                   OPTIONAL,
    ...,
    [[
    dummy                               ENUMERATED {supported}                      OPTIONAL
    ]],
    [[
    maxNumberSearchSpaces               ENUMERATED {n10}                            OPTIONAL,
    rateMatchingCtrlResrcSetDynamic     ENUMERATED {supported}                      OPTIONAL,
    maxLayersMIMO-Indication            ENUMERATED {supported}                      OPTIONAL
    ]],
    [[
    spCellPlacement                             CarrierAggregationVariant           OPTIONAL
    ]],
    [[
    -- R1 9-1: Basic channel structure and procedure of 2-step RACH
    twoStepRACH-r16                             ENUMERATED {supported}              OPTIONAL,
    -- R1 11-1: Monitoring DCI format 1_2 and DCI format 0_2
    dci-Format1-2And0-2-r16                     ENUMERATED {supported}              OPTIONAL,
    -- R1 11-1a: Monitoring both DCI format 0_1/1_1 and DCI format 0_2/1_2 in the same search space
    monitoringDCI-SameSearchSpace-r16           ENUMERATED {supported}              OPTIONAL,
    -- R1 11-10: Type 2 configured grant release by DCI format 0_1
    type2-CG-ReleaseDCI-0-1-r16                 ENUMERATED {supported}              OPTIONAL,
    -- R1 11-11: Type 2 configured grant release by DCI format 0_2
    type2-CG-ReleaseDCI-0-2-r16                 ENUMERATED {supported}              OPTIONAL,
    -- R1 12-3: SPS release by DCI format 1_1
    sps-ReleaseDCI-1-1-r16                      ENUMERATED {supported}              OPTIONAL,
    -- R1 12-3a: SPS release by DCI format 1_2
    sps-ReleaseDCI-1-2-r16                      ENUMERATED {supported}              OPTIONAL,
    -- R1 14-8: CSI trigger states containing non-active BWP
    csi-TriggerStateNon-ActiveBWP-r16           ENUMERATED {supported}              OPTIONAL,
    -- R1 20-2: Support up to 4 SMTCs configured for an IAB node MT per frequency location, including IAB-specific SMTC window periodicities
    separateSMTC-InterIAB-Support-r16           ENUMERATED {supported}              OPTIONAL,
    -- R1 20-3: Support RACH configuration separately from the RACH configuration for UE access, including new IAB-specific offset and scaling factors
    separateRACH-IAB-Support-r16                ENUMERATED {supported}              OPTIONAL,
    -- R1 20-5a: Support semi-static configuration/indication of UL-Flexible-DL slot formats for IAB-MT resources
    ul-flexibleDL-SlotFormatSemiStatic-IAB-r16  ENUMERATED {supported}              OPTIONAL,
    -- R1 20-5b: Support dynamic indication of UL-Flexible-DL slot formats for IAB-MT resources
    ul-flexibleDL-SlotFormatDynamics-IAB-r16    ENUMERATED {supported}              OPTIONAL,
    dft-S-OFDM-WaveformUL-IAB-r16               ENUMERATED {supported}              OPTIONAL,
    -- R1 20-6: Support DCI Format 2_5 based indication of soft resource availability to an IAB node
    dci-25-AI-RNTI-Support-IAB-r16              ENUMERATED {supported}              OPTIONAL,
    -- R1 20-7: Support T_delta reception.
    t-DeltaReceptionSupport-IAB-r16             ENUMERATED {supported}              OPTIONAL,
    -- R1 20-8: Support of Desired guard symbol reporting and provided guard symbok reception.
    guardSymbolReportReception-IAB-r16          ENUMERATED {supported}              OPTIONAL,
    -- R1 18-8 HARQ-ACK codebook type and spatial bundling per PUCCH group
    harqACK-CB-SpatialBundlingPUCCH-Group-r16   ENUMERATED {supported}              OPTIONAL,
    -- R1 19-2: Cross Slot Scheduling
    crossSlotScheduling-r16                     SEQUENCE {
        non-SharedSpectrumChAccess-r16              ENUMERATED {supported}          OPTIONAL,
        sharedSpectrumChAccess-r16                  ENUMERATED {supported}          OPTIONAL
    }                                                                               OPTIONAL,
    maxNumberSRS-PosPathLossEstimateAllServingCells-r16  ENUMERATED {n1, n4, n8, n16}         OPTIONAL,
    extendedCG-Periodicities-r16                ENUMERATED {supported}              OPTIONAL,
    extendedSPS-Periodicities-r16               ENUMERATED {supported}              OPTIONAL,
    codebookVariantsList-r16                    CodebookVariantsList-r16            OPTIONAL,
    -- R1 11-6: PUSCH repetition Type A
    pusch-RepetitionTypeA-r16                   SEQUENCE {
        sharedSpectrumChAccess-r16                  ENUMERATED {supported}          OPTIONAL,
        non-SharedSpectrumChAccess-r16              ENUMERATED {supported}          OPTIONAL
    }                                                                               OPTIONAL,
    -- R1 11-4b: DL priority indication in DCI with mixed DCI formats
    dci-DL-PriorityIndicator-r16                ENUMERATED {supported}              OPTIONAL,
    -- R1 12-1a: UL priority indication in DCI with mixed DCI formats
    dci-UL-PriorityIndicator-r16                ENUMERATED {supported}              OPTIONAL,
    -- R1 16-1e: Maximum number of configured pathloss reference RSs for PUSCH/PUCCH/SRS by RRC for MAC-CE based pathloss reference RS update
    maxNumberPathlossRS-Update-r16              ENUMERATED {n4, n8, n16, n32, n64}  OPTIONAL,

    -- R1 18-9: Usage of the PDSCH starting time for HARQ-ACK type 2 codebook
    type2-HARQ-ACK-Codebook-r16                 ENUMERATED {supported}              OPTIONAL,
    -- R1 16-1g-1: Resources for beam management, pathloss measurement, BFD, RLM and new beam identification across frequency ranges
    maxTotalResourcesForAcrossFreqRanges-r16    SEQUENCE {
        maxNumberResWithinSlotAcrossCC-AcrossFR-r16 ENUMERATED {n2, n4, n8, n12, n16, n32, n64, n128}        OPTIONAL,
        maxNumberResAcrossCC-AcrossFR-r16           ENUMERATED {n2, n4, n8, n12, n16, n32, n40, n48, n64, n72, n80, n96, n128, n256}
                                                                                    OPTIONAL
    }                                                                               OPTIONAL,
    -- R1 16-2a-4: HARQ-ACK for multi-DCI based multi-TRP - separate
    harqACK-separateMultiDCI-MultiTRP-r16       SEQUENCE {
    maxNumberLongPUCCHs-r16                         ENUMERATED {longAndLong, longAndShort, shortAndShort}    OPTIONAL
    }                                                                               OPTIONAL,
    -- R1 16-2a-4: HARQ-ACK for multi-DCI based multi-TRP - joint
    harqACK-jointMultiDCI-MultiTRP-r16          ENUMERATED {supported}              OPTIONAL,
    -- R4 9-1: BWP switching on multiple CCs RRM requirements
    bwp-SwitchingMultiCCs-r16                   CHOICE {
        type1-r16                                   ENUMERATED {us100, us200},
        type2-r16                                   ENUMERATED {us200, us400, us800, us1000}
    }                                                                               OPTIONAL
    ]],
    [[
    targetSMTC-SCG-r16                          ENUMERATED {supported}              OPTIONAL,
    supportRepetitionZeroOffsetRV-r16           ENUMERATED {supported}              OPTIONAL,
    -- R1 11-12: in-order CBG-based re-transmission
    cbg-TransInOrderPUSCH-UL-r16                ENUMERATED {supported}              OPTIONAL
    ]],
    [[
    -- R4 6-3: Dormant BWP switching on multiple CCs RRM requirements
    bwp-SwitchingMultiDormancyCCs-r16           CHOICE {
        type1-r16                                   ENUMERATED {us100, us200},
        type2-r16                                   ENUMERATED {us200, us400, us800, us1000}
    }                                                                               OPTIONAL,
    -- R1 16-2a-8: Indicates that retransmission scheduled by a different CORESETPoolIndex for multi-DCI multi-TRP is not supported.
    supportRetx-Diff-CoresetPool-Multi-DCI-TRP-r16               ENUMERATED {notSupported}          OPTIONAL,
    -- R1 22-10: Support of pdcch-MonitoringAnyOccasionsWithSpanGap in case of cross-carrier scheduling with different SCSs
    pdcch-MonitoringAnyOccasionsWithSpanGapCrossCarrierSch-r16   ENUMERATED {mode2, mode3}          OPTIONAL
    ]],
    [[
    -- R1 16-1j-1: Support of 2 port CSI-RS for new beam identification
    newBeamIdentifications2PortCSI-RS-r16       ENUMERATED {supported}              OPTIONAL,
    -- R1 16-1j-2: Support of 2 port CSI-RS for pathloss estimation
    pathlossEstimation2PortCSI-RS-r16           ENUMERATED {supported}              OPTIONAL
    ]],
    [[
    mux-HARQ-ACK-withoutPUCCH-onPUSCH-r16       ENUMERATED {supported}              OPTIONAL
    ]],
    [[
    -- R1 31-1: Support of Desired Guard Symbol reporting and provided guard symbol reception.
    guardSymbolReportReception-IAB-r17          ENUMERATED {supported}              OPTIONAL,
    -- R1 31-2: support of restricted IAB-DU beam reception
    restricted-IAB-DU-BeamReception-r17         ENUMERATED {supported}              OPTIONAL,
    -- R1 31-3: support of recommended IAB-MT beam transmission for DL and UL beam
    recommended-IAB-MT-BeamTransmission-r17     ENUMERATED {supported}              OPTIONAL,
    -- R1 31-4: support of case 6 timing alignment indication reception
    case6-TimingAlignmentReception-IAB-r17      ENUMERATED {supported}              OPTIONAL,
    -- R1 31-5: support of case 7 timing offset indication reception and case 7 timing at parent-node indication reception
    case7-TimingAlignmentReception-IAB-r17      ENUMERATED {supported}              OPTIONAL,
    -- R1 31-6: support of desired DL Tx power adjustment reporting and DL Tx power adjustment reception
    dl-tx-PowerAdjustment-IAB-r17               ENUMERATED {supported}              OPTIONAL,
    -- R1 31-7: support of desired IAB-MT PSD range reporting
    desired-ul-tx-PowerAdjustment-r17           ENUMERATED {supported}              OPTIONAL,
    -- R1 31-8: support of monitoring DCI Format 2_5 scrambled by AI-RNTI for indication of FDM soft resource availability to an IAB node
    fdm-SoftResourceAvailability-DynamicIndication-r17  ENUMERATED{supported}       OPTIONAL,
    -- R1 31-10: Support of updated T_delta range reception
    updated-T-DeltaRangeReception-r17           ENUMERATED{supported}               OPTIONAL,
    -- R1 30-5: Support slot based dynamic PUCCH repetition indication for PUCCH formats 0/1/2/3/4
    slotBasedDynamicPUCCH-Rep-r17               ENUMERATED {supported}              OPTIONAL,
    -- R1 25-1: Support of HARQ-ACK deferral in case of TDD collision
    sps-HARQ-ACK-Deferral-r17                   SEQUENCE {
        non-SharedSpectrumChAccess-r17              ENUMERATED {supported}          OPTIONAL,
        sharedSpectrumChAccess-r17                  ENUMERATED {supported}          OPTIONAL
    }                                                                               OPTIONAL,
    -- R1 23-1-1k Maximum number of configured CC lists (per UE)
    unifiedJointTCI-commonUpdate-r17            INTEGER (1..4)                      OPTIONAL,
    -- R1 23-2-1c PDCCH repetition with a single span of three contiguous OFDM symbols that is within the first four OFDM symbols in a slot
    mTRP-PDCCH-singleSpan-r17                   ENUMERATED {supported}              OPTIONAL,
    -- R1 27-23: Support of more than one activated PRS processing windows across all active DL BWPs
    supportedActivatedPRS-ProcessingWindow-r17  ENUMERATED {n2, n3, n4}             OPTIONAL,
    cg-TimeDomainAllocationExtension-r17        ENUMERATED {supported}              OPTIONAL
    ]],
     [[
    -- R1 25-20: Propagation delay compensation based on Rel-15 TA procedure for TN and licensed
    ta-BasedPDC-TN-NonSharedSpectrumChAccess-r17 ENUMERATED {supported}             OPTIONAL,
    -- R1 31-11: Directional Collision Handling in DC operation
    directionalCollisionDC-IAB-r17              ENUMERATED {supported}              OPTIONAL
    ]],
    [[
    dummy1                                      ENUMERATED {supported}              OPTIONAL,
    dummy2                                      ENUMERATED {supported}              OPTIONAL,
    dummy3                                      ENUMERATED {supported}              OPTIONAL,
    dummy4                                      ENUMERATED {supported}              OPTIONAL,
    srs-AdditionalRepetition-r17                ENUMERATED {supported}              OPTIONAL,
    pusch-Repetition-CG-SDT-r17                 ENUMERATED {supported}              OPTIONAL
    ]],
    [[
    multiPDSCH-PerSlotType1-CB-Support-r17      ENUMERATED {supported}              OPTIONAL
    ]],
    [[
    -- R1 42-6: Joint operation of power domain and spatial domain adaptation
    jointPowerSpatialAdaptation-r18                         ENUMERATED {supported}                        OPTIONAL,
    -- R1 43-3: Aperiodic beam indication for access link
    ncr-AperiodicBeamInd-AccessLink-r18                     SEQUENCE {
        scs-15kHz-r18                                           INTEGER (0..1)                            OPTIONAL,
        scs-30kHz-r18                                           INTEGER (0..1)                            OPTIONAL,
        scs-60kHz-r18                                           INTEGER (0..2)                            OPTIONAL,
        scs-120kHz-r18                                          INTEGER (0..2)                            OPTIONAL
    }                                                                                                     OPTIONAL,
    -- R1 43-4: Semi-persistent beam indication for access link
    ncr-Semi-PersistentBeamInd-AccessLink-r18               ENUMERATED {supported}                        OPTIONAL,
    -- R1 43-5: Simulatenous UL transmission of backhaul link and C-Link
    ncr-SimultaneousUL-BackhaulAndC-Link-r18                ENUMERATED {supported}                        OPTIONAL,
    -- R1 43-6: Dedicated signalling for backhaul link beam indication
    ncr-BackhaulBeamInd-r18                                 ENUMERATED {nonUnifiedTCI, unifiedTCI, both}  OPTIONAL,
    -- R1 43-8: Adaptive beam for NCR backhaul link/C-link
    ncr-AdaptiveBeamBackhaulAndC-Link-r18                   ENUMERATED {nonUnifiedTCI, unifiedTCI, both}  OPTIONAL,

    -- R1 49-4a: Nominal RBG size of Configuration 3 for FDRA type 0 for DCI format 1_3
    nominalRBG-SizeOfConfig-3-FDRA-Type-0-DCI-1-3-r18       ENUMERATED {supported}                        OPTIONAL,
    -- R1 49-4b: Nominal RBG size of Configuration 3 for FDRA type 0 for DCI format 0_3
    nominalRBG-SizeOfConfig-3-FDRA-Type-0-DCI-0-3-r18       ENUMERATED {supported}                        OPTIONAL,
    -- R1 49-4c: Configurable Type-1A fields for DCI format 0_3/1_3
    configurableType-1A-FieldsForDCI-0-3-And-1-3-r18        ENUMERATED {supported}                        OPTIONAL,
    -- R1 49-4d: FDRA Type 1 granularity of 2, 4, 8, or 16 consecutive RBs based RIV for DCI format 1_3/0_3
    fdra-Type-1-Gty-2-4-8-16-RBs-RIV-DCI-1-3-And-0-3-r18    ENUMERATED {supported}                        OPTIONAL,
    -- R1 49-6b: DL priority indication in DCI with mixed DCI formats including DCI format 1_3
    priorityIndicationDL-r18                                ENUMERATED {supported}                        OPTIONAL,
    -- R1 49-7a: UL priority indication in DCI with mixed DCI formats including DCI format 0_3
    priorityIndicationUL-r18                                ENUMERATED {supported}                        OPTIONAL,
    -- R1 49-10: Dynamic indication of applicable minimum scheduling restriction by DCI format 0_3/1_3
    dynamicIndicationSchedulingRestriction-r18              ENUMERATED {supported}                        OPTIONAL,
    -- R1 49-11: PHY priority indication for one-shot HARQ-ACK feedback triggered by DCI format 1_3
    priorityIndicationOneSlotHARQ-r18                       ENUMERATED {supported}                        OPTIONAL,
    -- R1 50-1c: Multi-PUSCHs Type 2 configured grant release by DCI format 0_1
    multiPUSCH-DCI-0-1-r18                                  ENUMERATED {supported}                        OPTIONAL,
    -- R1 50-1d: Multi-PUSCHs Type 2 configured grant release by DCI format 0_2
    multiPUSCH-DCI-0-2-r18                                  ENUMERATED {supported}                        OPTIONAL,

    -- R1 55-1: Additional SR periodicities
    additionalSR-Periodicities-r18                          SEQUENCE {
        scs-30kHz-r18                                           ENUMERATED {supported}                    OPTIONAL,
        scs-120kHz-r18                                          ENUMERATED {supported}                    OPTIONAL
    }                                                                                                     OPTIONAL,
    -- R1 55-5: Enable MAC CE based pathloss RS updates for Type 1 CG-PUSCH
    pathlossRS-UpdateForType1CG-PUSCH-r18                   ENUMERATED {supported}                        OPTIONAL,
    -- R4 38-9: Dormant BWP switching on multiple CCs RRM requirements with DCI 0-3/1-3
    bwp-SwitchingMultiDormancyCC-DCI-0-3-And-1-3-r18        CHOICE {
        type1-r18                                               ENUMERATED {us100, us200},
        type2-r18                                               ENUMERATED {us200, us400, us800, us1000}
    }                                                                                                     OPTIONAL
    ]],
    [[
    ncr-dft-S-OFDM-WaveformUL-r18                           ENUMERATED {supported}                        OPTIONAL
    ]]

}

Phy-ParametersCommon-v16a0 ::=                  SEQUENCE {
    srs-PeriodicityAndOffsetExt-r16                 ENUMERATED {supported}          OPTIONAL
}

Phy-ParametersXDD-Diff ::=          SEQUENCE {
    dynamicSFI                          ENUMERATED {supported}                      OPTIONAL,
    twoPUCCH-F0-2-ConsecSymbols         ENUMERATED {supported}                      OPTIONAL,
    twoDifferentTPC-Loop-PUSCH          ENUMERATED {supported}                      OPTIONAL,
    twoDifferentTPC-Loop-PUCCH          ENUMERATED {supported}                      OPTIONAL,
    ...,
    [[
    dl-SchedulingOffset-PDSCH-TypeA     ENUMERATED {supported}                      OPTIONAL,
    dl-SchedulingOffset-PDSCH-TypeB     ENUMERATED {supported}                      OPTIONAL,
    ul-SchedulingOffset                 ENUMERATED {supported}                      OPTIONAL
    ]]
}

Phy-ParametersFRX-Diff ::=                  SEQUENCE {
    dynamicSFI                                  ENUMERATED {supported}                      OPTIONAL,
    dummy1                                      BIT STRING (SIZE (2))                       OPTIONAL,
    twoFL-DMRS                                  BIT STRING (SIZE (2))                       OPTIONAL,
    dummy2                                      BIT STRING (SIZE (2))                       OPTIONAL,
    dummy3                                      BIT STRING (SIZE (2))                       OPTIONAL,
    supportedDMRS-TypeDL                        ENUMERATED {type1, type1And2}               OPTIONAL,
    supportedDMRS-TypeUL                        ENUMERATED {type1, type1And2}               OPTIONAL,
    semiOpenLoopCSI                             ENUMERATED {supported}                      OPTIONAL,
    csi-ReportWithoutPMI                        ENUMERATED {supported}                      OPTIONAL,
    csi-ReportWithoutCQI                        ENUMERATED {supported}                      OPTIONAL,
    onePortsPTRS                                BIT STRING (SIZE (2))                       OPTIONAL,
    twoPUCCH-F0-2-ConsecSymbols                 ENUMERATED {supported}                      OPTIONAL,
    pucch-F2-WithFH                             ENUMERATED {supported}                      OPTIONAL,
    pucch-F3-WithFH                             ENUMERATED {supported}                      OPTIONAL,
    pucch-F4-WithFH                             ENUMERATED {supported}                      OPTIONAL,
    pucch-F0-2WithoutFH                         ENUMERATED {notSupported}                   OPTIONAL,
    pucch-F1-3-4WithoutFH                       ENUMERATED {notSupported}                   OPTIONAL,
    mux-SR-HARQ-ACK-CSI-PUCCH-MultiPerSlot      ENUMERATED {supported}                      OPTIONAL,
    uci-CodeBlockSegmentation                   ENUMERATED {supported}                      OPTIONAL,
    onePUCCH-LongAndShortFormat                 ENUMERATED {supported}                      OPTIONAL,
    twoPUCCH-AnyOthersInSlot                    ENUMERATED {supported}                      OPTIONAL,
    intraSlotFreqHopping-PUSCH                  ENUMERATED {supported}                      OPTIONAL,
    pusch-LBRM                                  ENUMERATED {supported}                      OPTIONAL,
    pdcch-BlindDetectionCA                      INTEGER (4..16)                             OPTIONAL,
    tpc-PUSCH-RNTI                              ENUMERATED {supported}                      OPTIONAL,
    tpc-PUCCH-RNTI                              ENUMERATED {supported}                      OPTIONAL,
    tpc-SRS-RNTI                                ENUMERATED {supported}                      OPTIONAL,
    absoluteTPC-Command                         ENUMERATED {supported}                      OPTIONAL,
    twoDifferentTPC-Loop-PUSCH                  ENUMERATED {supported}                      OPTIONAL,
    twoDifferentTPC-Loop-PUCCH                  ENUMERATED {supported}                      OPTIONAL,
    pusch-HalfPi-BPSK                           ENUMERATED {supported}                      OPTIONAL,
    pucch-F3-4-HalfPi-BPSK                      ENUMERATED {supported}                      OPTIONAL,
    almostContiguousCP-OFDM-UL                  ENUMERATED {supported}                      OPTIONAL,
    sp-CSI-RS                                   ENUMERATED {supported}                      OPTIONAL,
    sp-CSI-IM                                   ENUMERATED {supported}                      OPTIONAL,
    tdd-MultiDL-UL-SwitchPerSlot                ENUMERATED {supported}                      OPTIONAL,
    multipleCORESET                             ENUMERATED {supported}                      OPTIONAL,
    ...,
    [[
    csi-RS-IM-ReceptionForFeedback              CSI-RS-IM-ReceptionForFeedback              OPTIONAL,
    csi-RS-ProcFrameworkForSRS                  CSI-RS-ProcFrameworkForSRS                  OPTIONAL,
    csi-ReportFramework                         CSI-ReportFramework                         OPTIONAL,
    mux-SR-HARQ-ACK-CSI-PUCCH-OncePerSlot       SEQUENCE {
        sameSymbol                                  ENUMERATED {supported}                      OPTIONAL,
        diffSymbol                                  ENUMERATED {supported}                      OPTIONAL
    }                                                                                       OPTIONAL,
    mux-SR-HARQ-ACK-PUCCH                       ENUMERATED {supported}                      OPTIONAL,
    mux-MultipleGroupCtrlCH-Overlap             ENUMERATED {supported}                      OPTIONAL,
    dl-SchedulingOffset-PDSCH-TypeA             ENUMERATED {supported}                      OPTIONAL,
    dl-SchedulingOffset-PDSCH-TypeB             ENUMERATED {supported}                      OPTIONAL,
    ul-SchedulingOffset                         ENUMERATED {supported}                      OPTIONAL,
    dl-64QAM-MCS-TableAlt                       ENUMERATED {supported}                      OPTIONAL,
    ul-64QAM-MCS-TableAlt                       ENUMERATED {supported}                      OPTIONAL,
    cqi-TableAlt                                ENUMERATED {supported}                      OPTIONAL,
    oneFL-DMRS-TwoAdditionalDMRS-UL             ENUMERATED {supported}                      OPTIONAL,
    twoFL-DMRS-TwoAdditionalDMRS-UL             ENUMERATED {supported}                      OPTIONAL,
    oneFL-DMRS-ThreeAdditionalDMRS-UL           ENUMERATED {supported}                      OPTIONAL
    ]],
    [[
    pdcch-BlindDetectionNRDC                SEQUENCE {
        pdcch-BlindDetectionMCG-UE              INTEGER (1..15),
        pdcch-BlindDetectionSCG-UE              INTEGER (1..15)
    }                                                                                       OPTIONAL,
    mux-HARQ-ACK-PUSCH-DiffSymbol               ENUMERATED {supported}                      OPTIONAL
    ]],
    [[
    -- R1 11-1b: Type 1 HARQ-ACK codebook support for relative TDRA for DL
    type1-HARQ-ACK-Codebook-r16                 ENUMERATED {supported}                      OPTIONAL,
    -- R1 11-8: Enhanced UL power control scheme
    enhancedPowerControl-r16                    ENUMERATED {supported}                      OPTIONAL,
    -- R1 16-1b-1: TCI state activation across multiple CCs
    simultaneousTCI-ActMultipleCC-r16           ENUMERATED {supported}                      OPTIONAL,
    -- R1 16-1b-2: Spatial relation update across multiple CCs
    simultaneousSpatialRelationMultipleCC-r16   ENUMERATED {supported}                      OPTIONAL,
    cli-RSSI-FDM-DL-r16                         ENUMERATED {supported}                      OPTIONAL,
    cli-SRS-RSRP-FDM-DL-r16                     ENUMERATED {supported}                      OPTIONAL,
    -- R1 19-3: Maximum MIMO Layer Adaptation
    maxLayersMIMO-Adaptation-r16                ENUMERATED {supported}                      OPTIONAL,
    -- R1 12-5: Configuration of aggregation factor per SPS configuration
    aggregationFactorSPS-DL-r16                 ENUMERATED {supported}                      OPTIONAL,
    -- R1 16-1g: Resources for beam management, pathloss measurement, BFD, RLM and new beam identification
    maxTotalResourcesForOneFreqRange-r16        SEQUENCE {
        maxNumberResWithinSlotAcrossCC-OneFR-r16    ENUMERATED {n2, n4, n8, n12, n16, n32, n64, n128}    OPTIONAL,
        maxNumberResAcrossCC-OneFR-r16              ENUMERATED {n2, n4, n8, n12, n16, n32, n40, n48, n64, n72, n80, n96, n128, n256}
                                                                                            OPTIONAL
    }                                           OPTIONAL,
    -- R1 16-7: Extension of the maximum number of configured aperiodic CSI report settings
    csi-ReportFrameworkExt-r16                  CSI-ReportFrameworkExt-r16                  OPTIONAL
    ]],
    [[
    twoTCI-Act-servingCellInCC-List-r16         ENUMERATED {supported}                      OPTIONAL
    ]],
    [[
    -- R1 22-11: Support of 'cri-RI-CQI' report without non-PMI-PortIndication
    cri-RI-CQI-WithoutNon-PMI-PortInd-r16       ENUMERATED {supported}                      OPTIONAL
    ]],
    [[
    -- R1 25-11: 4-bits subband CQI for TN and licensed
    cqi-4-BitsSubbandTN-NonSharedSpectrumChAccess-r17  ENUMERATED {supported}               OPTIONAL
    ]],
    [[
    multipleCORESET-RedCap-r17                  ENUMERATED {supported}                      OPTIONAL
    ]]
}

Phy-ParametersFR1 ::=                       SEQUENCE {
    pdcch-MonitoringSingleOccasion              ENUMERATED {supported}                      OPTIONAL,
    scs-60kHz                                   ENUMERATED {supported}                      OPTIONAL,
    pdsch-256QAM-FR1                            ENUMERATED {supported}                      OPTIONAL,
    pdsch-RE-MappingFR1-PerSymbol               ENUMERATED {n10, n20}                       OPTIONAL,
    ...,
    [[
    pdsch-RE-MappingFR1-PerSlot                 ENUMERATED {n16, n32, n48, n64, n80, n96, n112, n128,
                                                n144, n160, n176, n192, n208, n224, n240, n256}         OPTIONAL
    ]],
    [[
    -- R1 22-12: PDCCH monitoring with a single span of three contiguous OFDM symbols that is within the first four OFDM symbols in a
    -- slot
    pdcch-MonitoringSingleSpanFirst4Sym-r16     ENUMERATED {supported}                      OPTIONAL
    ]],
    [[
    -- R1 56-4: K1 range extension defined for ATG as well
    k1-RangeExtensionATG-r18                    ENUMERATED {supported}                      OPTIONAL,
    -- R1 56-3: Increasing the number of HARQ processes defined for ATG as well
    maxHARQ-ProcessNumberATG-r18                ENUMERATED {u16d32, u32d16, u32d32}         OPTIONAL,
    -- R1 56-1: Uplink Time and Frequency pre-compensation and timing relationship enhancements defined for ATG as well
    uplinkPreCompensationATG-r18                ENUMERATED {supported}                      OPTIONAL,
    -- R1 56-2: UE reporting of TA information
    uplinkTA-ReportingATG-r18                   ENUMERATED {supported}                      OPTIONAL,
    -- R4 36-1: MU-MIMO Interference Mitigation advanced receiver
    advReceiver-MU-MIMO-r18                     ENUMERATED {supported}                      OPTIONAL,
    -- R4 41-1: Support of delta PPowerClass reporting mechanism
    deltaPowerClassReporting-r18                ENUMERATED {type1, type2}                   OPTIONAL,
    -- R1 51-2b: Support 12 PRB CORESET0 with an associated SS/PBCH block located at GSCN 41637
    support12PRB-CORESET0-GSCN-41637-r18        ENUMERATED {supported}                      OPTIONAL,
    -- R1 51-3: Support 5 MHz channel bandwidth with 20 PRB CORESET0
    support5MHz-ChannelBW-20PRB-CORESET0-r18    ENUMERATED {supported}                      OPTIONAL
    ]]
}

Phy-ParametersFR2 ::=                       SEQUENCE {
    dummy                                       ENUMERATED {supported}                                  OPTIONAL,
    pdsch-RE-MappingFR2-PerSymbol               ENUMERATED {n6, n20}                                    OPTIONAL,
    ...,
    [[
    pCell-FR2                                   ENUMERATED {supported}                                  OPTIONAL,
    pdsch-RE-MappingFR2-PerSlot                 ENUMERATED {n16, n32, n48, n64, n80, n96, n112, n128,
                                                    n144, n160, n176, n192, n208, n224, n240, n256}     OPTIONAL
    ]],
    [[
    -- R1 16-1c: Support of default spatial relation and pathloss reference RS for dedicated-PUCCH/SRS and PUSCH
    defaultSpatialRelationPathlossRS-r16        ENUMERATED {supported}                                  OPTIONAL,
    -- R1 16-1d: Support of spatial relation update for AP-SRS via MAC CE
    spatialRelationUpdateAP-SRS-r16             ENUMERATED {supported}                                  OPTIONAL,
    maxNumberSRS-PosSpatialRelationsAllServingCells-r16  ENUMERATED {n0, n1, n2, n4, n8, n16}           OPTIONAL
    ]],
    [[
    -- R4 30-3: Supports Indication of multi-Rx operation preference
    multiRxPreferenceIndication-r18             ENUMERATED {supported}                                  OPTIONAL
    ]]
}

-- TAG-PHY-PARAMETERS-STOP
-- ASN1STOP



–	Phy-ParametersMRDC
The IE Phy-ParametersMRDC is used to convey physical layer capabilities for MR-DC.
Phy-ParametersMRDC information element
-- ASN1START
-- TAG-PHY-PARAMETERSMRDC-START

Phy-ParametersMRDC ::=              SEQUENCE {
    naics-Capability-List               SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxNrofNAICS-Entries)) OF NAICS-Capability-Entry         OPTIONAL,
    ...,
    [[
    spCellPlacement                     CarrierAggregationVariant                                                   OPTIONAL
    ]],
    [[
    -- R1 18-3b: Semi-statically configured LTE UL transmissions in all UL subframes not limited to tdm-pattern in case of TDD PCell
    tdd-PCellUL-TX-AllUL-Subframe-r16   ENUMERATED {supported}                                                      OPTIONAL,
    -- R1 18-3a: Semi-statically configured LTE UL transmissions in all UL subframes not limited to tdm-pattern in case of FDD PCell
    fdd-PCellUL-TX-AllUL-Subframe-r16   ENUMERATED {supported}                                                      OPTIONAL
    ]]
}

NAICS-Capability-Entry ::=          SEQUENCE {
    numberOfNAICS-CapableCC             INTEGER(1..5),
    numberOfAggregatedPRB               ENUMERATED {n50, n75, n100, n125, n150, n175, n200, n225,
                                                    n250, n275, n300, n350, n400, n450, n500, spare},
    ...
}

-- TAG-PHY-PARAMETERSMRDC-STOP
-- ASN1STOP



–	Phy-ParametersSharedSpectrumChAccess
The IE Phy-ParametersSharedSpectrumChAccess is used to convey the physical layer capabilities specific for shared spectrum channel access.
Phy-ParametersSharedSpectrumChAccess information element
-- ASN1START
-- TAG-PHY-PARAMETERSSHAREDSPECTRUMCHACCESS-START

Phy-ParametersSharedSpectrumChAccess-r16 ::=    SEQUENCE {
    -- 10-32 (1-2): SS block based SINR measurement (SS-SINR) for unlicensed spectrum
    ss-SINR-Meas-r16                                ENUMERATED {supported}                      OPTIONAL,
    -- 10-33 (2-32a): Semi-persistent CSI report on PUCCH for unlicensed spectrum
    sp-CSI-ReportPUCCH-r16                          ENUMERATED {supported}                      OPTIONAL,
    -- 10-33a (2-32b): Semi-persistent CSI report on PUSCH for unlicensed spectrum
    sp-CSI-ReportPUSCH-r16                          ENUMERATED {supported}                      OPTIONAL,
    -- 10-34 (3-6): Dynamic SFI monitoring for unlicensed spectrum
    dynamicSFI-r16                                  ENUMERATED {supported}                      OPTIONAL,
    -- 10-35c (4-19c): SR/HARQ-ACK/CSI multiplexing once per slot using a PUCCH (or HARQ-ACK/CSI piggybacked on a PUSCH) when SR/HARQ-
    -- ACK/CSI are supposed to be sent with different starting symbols in a slot for unlicensed spectrum
    -- 10-35 (4-19): SR/HARQ-ACK/CSI multiplexing once per slot using a PUCCH (or HARQ-ACK/CSI piggybacked on a PUSCH) when SR/HARQ-
    -- ACK/CSI are supposed to be sent with the same starting symbol on the PUCCH resources in a slot for unlicensed spectrum
    mux-SR-HARQ-ACK-CSI-PUCCH-OncePerSlot-r16       SEQUENCE {
        sameSymbol-r16                                  ENUMERATED {supported}                  OPTIONAL,
        diffSymbol-r16                                  ENUMERATED {supported}                  OPTIONAL
    }                                                                                           OPTIONAL,
    -- 10-35a (4-19a): Overlapping PUCCH resources have different starting symbols in a slot for unlicensed spectrum
    mux-SR-HARQ-ACK-PUCCH-r16                       ENUMERATED {supported}                      OPTIONAL,
    -- 10-35b (4-19b): SR/HARQ-ACK/CSI multiplexing more than once per slot using a PUCCH (or HARQ-ACK/CSI piggybacked on a PUSCH) when
    -- SR/HARQ ACK/CSI are supposed to be sent with the same or different starting symbol in a slot for unlicensed spectrum
    mux-SR-HARQ-ACK-CSI-PUCCH-MultiPerSlot-r16      ENUMERATED {supported}                      OPTIONAL,
    -- 10-36 (4-28): HARQ-ACK multiplexing on PUSCH with different PUCCH/PUSCH starting OFDM symbols for unlicensed spectrum
    mux-HARQ-ACK-PUSCH-DiffSymbol-r16               ENUMERATED {supported}                      OPTIONAL,
    -- 10-37 (4-23): Repetitions for PUCCH format 1, 3, and 4 over multiple slots with K = 2, 4, 8 for unlicensed spectrum
    pucch-Repetition-F1-3-4-r16                     ENUMERATED {supported}                      OPTIONAL,
    -- 10-38 (5-14): Type 1 configured PUSCH repetitions over multiple slots for unlicensed spectrum
    type1-PUSCH-RepetitionMultiSlots-r16            ENUMERATED {supported}                      OPTIONAL,
    -- 10-39 (5-16): Type 2 configured PUSCH repetitions over multiple slots for unlicensed spectrum
    type2-PUSCH-RepetitionMultiSlots-r16            ENUMERATED {supported}                      OPTIONAL,
    -- 10-40 (5-17): PUSCH repetitions over multiple slots for unlicensed spectrum
    pusch-RepetitionMultiSlots-r16                  ENUMERATED {supported}                      OPTIONAL,
    -- 10-40a (5-17a): PDSCH repetitions over multiple slots for unlicensed spectrum
    pdsch-RepetitionMultiSlots-r16                  ENUMERATED {supported}                      OPTIONAL,
    -- 10-41 (5-18): DL SPS
    downlinkSPS-r16                                 ENUMERATED {supported}                      OPTIONAL,
    -- 10-42 (5-19): Type 1 Configured UL grant
    configuredUL-GrantType1-r16                     ENUMERATED {supported}                      OPTIONAL,
    -- 10-43 (5-20): Type 2 Configured UL grant
    configuredUL-GrantType2-r16                     ENUMERATED {supported}                      OPTIONAL,
    -- 10-44 (5-21): Pre-emption indication for DL
    pre-EmptIndication-DL-r16                       ENUMERATED {supported}                      OPTIONAL,
    ...
}

-- TAG-PHY-PARAMETERSSHAREDSPECTRUMCHACCESS-STOP
-- ASN1STOP

–	PosSRS-BWA-RRC-Inactive
The IE PosSRS-BWA-RRC-Inactive is used to convey the capabilities supported by the UE for support of positioning SRS bandwidth aggregation in RRC_INACTIVE
PosSRS-BWA-RRC-Inactive information element
-- ASN1START
-- TAG-POSSRS-BWA-RRC-INACTIVE-START

PosSRS-BWA-RRC-Inactive-r18 ::=              SEQUENCE {
    numOfCarriersIntraBandContiguous-r18         ENUMERATED {two, three, twoandthree},
    maximumAggregatedBW-TwoCarriersFR1-r18       ENUMERATED { mhz20, mhz40, mhz50, mhz80, mhz100, mhz160,
                                                              mhz180, mhz190, mhz200}                                         OPTIONAL,
    maximumAggregatedBW-TwoCarriersFR2-r18       ENUMERATED {mhz50, mhz100, mhz200, mhz400, mhz600, mhz800}                   OPTIONAL,
    maximumAggregatedBW-ThreeCarriersFR1-r18     ENUMERATED {mhz80, mhz100, mhz160, mhz200, mhz240, mhz300}                   OPTIONAL,
    maximumAggregatedBW-ThreeCarriersFR2-r18     ENUMERATED {mhz50, mhz100, mhz200, mhz300, mhz400, mhz600,
                                                             mhz800, mhz1000, mhz1200}                                        OPTIONAL,
    maximumAggregatedResourceSet-r18             ENUMERATED {n1, n2, n4, n8, n12, n16},
    maximumAggregatedResourcePeriodic-r18        ENUMERATED {n1, n2, n4, n8, n16, n32, n64},
    maximumAggregatedResourceSemi-r18            ENUMERATED {n0, n1, n2, n4, n8, n16, n32, n64},
    maximumAggregatedResourcePeriodicPerSlot-r18 ENUMERATED {n1, n2, n3, n4, n5, n6, n8, n10, n12, n14},
    maximumAggregatedResourceSemiPerSlot-r18     ENUMERATED {n0, n1, n2, n3, n4, n5, n6, n8, n10, n12, n14},
    guardPeriod-r18                              ENUMERATED {n0, n30, n100, n140, n200},
    powerClassForTwoAggregatedCarriers-r18       ENUMERATED {pc2, pc3}                                                        OPTIONAL,
    powerClassForThreeAggregatedCarriers-r18     ENUMERATED {pc2, pc3}                                                        OPTIONAL,
    ...
}

-- TAG-POSSRS-BWA-RRC-INACTIVE-STOP
-- ASN1STOP

–	PosSRS-RRC-Inactive-OutsideInitialUL-BWP
The IE PosSRS-RRC-Inactive-OutsideInitialUL-BWP is used to convey the capabilities supported by the UE for SRS for Positioning transmission in RRC_INACTIVE state configured outside initial UL BWP.
PosSRS-RRC-Inactive-OutsideInitialUL-BWP information element
-- ASN1START
-- TAG-POSSRS-RRC-INACTIVE-OUTSIDEINITIALUL-BWP-START

PosSRS-RRC-Inactive-OutsideInitialUL-BWP-r17::= SEQUENCE {
    -- R1 27-15b: Positioning SRS transmission in RRC_INACTIVE state configured outside initial UL BWP
    maxSRSposBandwidthForEachSCS-withinCC-FR1-r17   ENUMERATED {mhz5, mhz10, mhz15, mhz20, mhz25, mhz30, mhz35, mhz40,
                                                    mhz45, mhz50, mhz60, mhz70, mhz80, mhz90, mhz100}             OPTIONAL,
    maxSRSposBandwidthForEachSCS-withinCC-FR2-r17   ENUMERATED {mhz50, mhz100, mhz200, mhz400}                   OPTIONAL,
    maxNumOfSRSposResourceSets-r17                  ENUMERATED {n1, n2, n4, n8, n12, n16}                         OPTIONAL,
    maxNumOfPeriodicSRSposResources-r17             ENUMERATED {n1, n2, n4, n8, n16, n32, n64}                    OPTIONAL,
    maxNumOfPeriodicSRSposResourcesPerSlot-r17      ENUMERATED {n1, n2, n3, n4, n5, n6, n8, n10, n12, n14}        OPTIONAL,
    differentNumerologyBetweenSRSposAndInitialBWP-r17  ENUMERATED {supported}                                     OPTIONAL,
    srsPosWithoutRestrictionOnBWP-r17               ENUMERATED {supported}                                        OPTIONAL,
    maxNumOfPeriodicAndSemipersistentSRSposResources-r17  ENUMERATED {n1, n2, n4, n8, n16, n32, n64}              OPTIONAL,
    maxNumOfPeriodicAndSemipersistentSRSposResourcesPerSlot-r17  ENUMERATED {n1, n2, n3, n4, n5, n6, n8, n10, n12, n14}  OPTIONAL,
    differentCenterFreqBetweenSRSposAndInitialBWP-r17  ENUMERATED {supported}                                     OPTIONAL,
    switchingTimeSRS-TX-OtherTX-r17                 ENUMERATED {us100, us140, us200, us300, us500}                OPTIONAL,
    -- R1 27-15c: Support of positioning SRS transmission in RRC_INACTIVE state outside initial BWP with semi-persistent SRS
    maxNumOfSemiPersistentSRSposResources-r17       ENUMERATED {n1, n2, n4, n8, n16, n32, n64}                    OPTIONAL,
    maxNumOfSemiPersistentSRSposResourcesPerSlot-r17  ENUMERATED {n1, n2, n3, n4, n5, n6, n8, n10, n12, n14}      OPTIONAL,
    ...
}

-- TAG-POSSRS-RRC-INACTIVE-OUTSIDEINITIALUL-BWP-STOP
-- ASN1STOP

–	PosSRS-TxFrequencyHoppingRRC-Connected
The IE PosSRS-TxFrequencyHoppingRRC-Connected is used to convey the capabilities supported by the RRC_CONNECTED UE for support of positioning SRS with Tx frequency hopping for RedCap UEs.
PosSRS-TxFrequencyHoppingRRC-Connected information element
-- ASN1START
-- TAG-POSSRS-TXFREQUENCYHOPPINGRRCCONNECTED-START

PosSRS-TxFrequencyHoppingRRC-Connected-r18 ::= SEQUENCE {
    maximumSRS-BandwidthAcrossAllHopsFR1-r18       ENUMERATED {mhz40, mhz50, mhz80, mhz100}           OPTIONAL,
    maximumSRS-BandwidthAcrossAllHopsFR2-r18       ENUMERATED {mhz100, mhz200, mhz400}                OPTIONAL,
    maximumTxFH-Hops-r18                           ENUMERATED {n2, n3, n4, n5, n6}                    OPTIONAL,
    rf-TxRetuneTimeFR1-r18                         ENUMERATED {n70, n140, n210}                       OPTIONAL,
    rf-TxRetuneTimeFR2-r18                         ENUMERATED {n35, n70, n140}                        OPTIONAL,
    switchTimeBetweenActiveBWP-FrequencyHop-r18    ENUMERATED {n100, n140, n200, n300, n500}          OPTIONAL,
    numOfOverlappingPRB-r18                        ENUMERATED {n0, n1, n2, n4}                        OPTIONAL,
    maximumSRS-ResourcePeriodic-r18                ENUMERATED {n1, n2, n4, n8, n16, n32, n64}         OPTIONAL,
    maximumSRS-ResourceAperiodic-r18               ENUMERATED {n0,n1, n2, n4, n8, n16, n32, n64}      OPTIONAL,
    maximumSRS-ResourceSemipersistent-r18          ENUMERATED {n0,n1, n2, n4, n8, n16, n32, n64}      OPTIONAL,
    ...
}

-- TAG-POSSRS-TXFREQUENCYHOPPINGRRCCONNECTED-STOP
-- ASN1STOP
–	PosSRS-TxFrequencyHoppingRRC-Inactive
The IE PosSRS-TxFrequencyHoppingRRC-Inactive is used to convey the capabilities supported by the RRC_INACTIVE UE for support of positioning SRS with Tx frequency hopping for RedCap UEs.
PosSRS-TxFrequencyHoppingRRC-Inactive information element
-- ASN1START
-- TAG-POSSRS-TXFREQUENCYHOPPINGRRCINACTIVE-START

PosSRS-TxFrequencyHoppingRRC-Inactive-r18 ::=   SEQUENCE {
    maximumSRS-BandwidthAcrossAllHopsFR1-r18        ENUMERATED {mhz40, mhz50, mhz80, mhz100}           OPTIONAL,
    maximumSRS-BandwidthAcrossAllHopsFR2-r18        ENUMERATED {mhz100, mhz200, mhz400}                OPTIONAL,
    maximumTxFH-Hops-r18                            ENUMERATED {n2, n3, n4, n5, n6}                    OPTIONAL,
    rf-TxRetuneTimeFR1-r18                          ENUMERATED {n70, n140, n210}                       OPTIONAL,
    rf-TxRetuneTimeFR2-r18                          ENUMERATED {n35, n70, n140}                        OPTIONAL,
    switchTimeBetweenActiveBWP-FrequencyHop-r18     ENUMERATED {n100, n140, n200, n300, n500}          OPTIONAL,
    numOfOverlappingPRB-r18                         ENUMERATED {n0, n1, n2, n4}                        OPTIONAL,
    maximumSRS-Resource-Periodic-r18                ENUMERATED {n1, n2, n4, n8, n16, n32, n64}         OPTIONAL,
    maximumSRS-Resource-Semipersistent-r18          ENUMERATED {n0, n1, n2, n4, n8, n16, n32, n64}     OPTIONAL,
    ...
}

-- TAG-POSSRS-TXFREQUENCYHOPPINGRRCINACTIVE-STOP
-- ASN1STOP

–	PowSav-Parameters
The IE PowSav-Parameters is used to convey the capabilities supported by the UE for the power saving preferences.
PowSav-Parameters information element
-- ASN1START
-- TAG-POWSAV-PARAMETERS-START

PowSav-Parameters-r16 ::=         SEQUENCE {
    powSav-ParametersCommon-r16               PowSav-ParametersCommon-r16                                        OPTIONAL,
    powSav-ParametersFRX-Diff-r16             PowSav-ParametersFRX-Diff-r16                                      OPTIONAL,
    ...
}

PowSav-Parameters-v1700 ::=     SEQUENCE {
    powSav-ParametersFR2-2-r17      PowSav-ParametersFR2-2-r17                                                   OPTIONAL,
    ...
}

PowSav-ParametersCommon-r16 ::=    SEQUENCE {
    drx-Preference-r16                        ENUMERATED {supported}                                             OPTIONAL,
    maxCC-Preference-r16                      ENUMERATED {supported}                                             OPTIONAL,
    releasePreference-r16                     ENUMERATED {supported}                                             OPTIONAL,
    -- R1 19-4a: UE assistance information
    minSchedulingOffsetPreference-r16         ENUMERATED {supported}                                             OPTIONAL,
    ...
}

PowSav-ParametersFRX-Diff-r16 ::=    SEQUENCE {
    maxBW-Preference-r16                      ENUMERATED {supported}                                             OPTIONAL,
    maxMIMO-LayerPreference-r16               ENUMERATED {supported}                                             OPTIONAL,
    ...
}

PowSav-ParametersFR2-2-r17 ::=      SEQUENCE {
    maxBW-Preference-r17                      ENUMERATED {supported}                                             OPTIONAL,
    maxMIMO-LayerPreference-r17               ENUMERATED {supported}                                             OPTIONAL,
    ...
}

-- TAG-POWSAV-PARAMETERS-STOP
-- ASN1STOP

–	ProcessingParameters
The IE ProcessingParameters is used to indicate PDSCH/PUSCH processing capabilities supported by the UE.
ProcessingParameters information element
-- ASN1START
-- TAG-PROCESSINGPARAMETERS-START

ProcessingParameters ::=        SEQUENCE {
    fallback                        ENUMERATED {sc, cap1-only},
    differentTB-PerSlot              SEQUENCE {
        upto1                          NumberOfCarriers                    OPTIONAL,
        upto2                          NumberOfCarriers                    OPTIONAL,
        upto4                          NumberOfCarriers                    OPTIONAL,
        upto7                          NumberOfCarriers                    OPTIONAL
    }                                                                 OPTIONAL
}

NumberOfCarriers ::=    INTEGER (1..16)

-- TAG-PROCESSINGPARAMETERS-STOP
-- ASN1STOP

–	PRS-ProcessingCapabilityOutsideMGinPPWperType
The IE PRS-ProcessingCapabilityOutsideMGinPPWperType is used to indicate DL PRS Processing Capability outside MG capabilities supported by the UE.
PRS-ProcessingCapabilityOutsideMGinPPWperType information element
-- ASN1START
-- TAG-PRS-PROCESSINGCAPABILITYOUTSIDEMGINPPWPERType-START

PRS-ProcessingCapabilityOutsideMGinPPWperType-r17 ::= SEQUENCE {
    prsProcessingType-r17                                 ENUMERATED {type1A, type1B, type2},
    ppw-dl-PRS-BufferType-r17                             ENUMERATED {type1, type2, ...},
    ppw-durationOfPRS-Processing-r17                      CHOICE {
        ppw-durationOfPRS-Processing1-r17                     SEQUENCE {
            ppw-durationOfPRS-ProcessingSymbolsN-r17              ENUMERATED {msDot125, msDot25, msDot5, ms1, ms2, ms4, ms6, ms8, ms12,
                                                                              ms16, ms20, ms25, ms30, ms32, ms35, ms40, ms45, ms50},
            ppw-durationOfPRS-ProcessingSymbolsT-r17              ENUMERATED {ms1, ms2, ms4, ms8, ms16, ms20, ms30, ms40, ms80,
                                                                              ms160, ms320, ms640, ms1280}
        },
        ppw-durationOfPRS-Processing2-r17                     SEQUENCE {
            ppw-durationOfPRS-ProcessingSymbolsN2-r17             ENUMERATED {msDot125, msDot25, msDot5, ms1, ms2, ms3, ms4, ms5,
                                                                              ms6, ms8, ms12},
            ppw-durationOfPRS-ProcessingSymbolsT2-r17             ENUMERATED {ms4, ms5, ms6, ms8}
        }
    }                                                                                                                          OPTIONAL,
    ppw-maxNumOfDL-PRS-ResProcessedPerSlot-r17            SEQUENCE {
        scs15-r17                                             ENUMERATED {n1, n2, n4, n6, n8, n12, n16, n24, n32, n48, n64}    OPTIONAL,
        scs30-r17                                             ENUMERATED {n1, n2, n4, n6, n8, n12, n16, n24, n32, n48, n64}    OPTIONAL,
        scs60-r17                                             ENUMERATED {n1, n2, n4, n6, n8, n12, n16, n24, n32, n48, n64}    OPTIONAL,
        scs120-r17                                            ENUMERATED {n1, n2, n4, n6, n8, n12, n16, n24, n32, n48, n64}    OPTIONAL,
        ...
    },
    ppw-maxNumOfDL-Bandwidth-r17                          CHOICE {
        fr1-r17                                               ENUMERATED {mhz5, mhz10, mhz20, mhz40,	mhz50, mhz80, mhz100},
        fr2-r17                                               ENUMERATED {mhz50, mhz100, mhz200, mhz400}
    }                                                                                                                          OPTIONAL
}

-- TAG-PRS-PROCESSINGCAPABILITYOUTSIDEMGINPPWPERType-STOP
-- ASN1STOP

–	RAT-Type
The IE RAT-Type is used to indicate the radio access technology (RAT), including NR, of the requested/transferred UE capabilities.
RAT-Type information element
-- ASN1START
-- TAG-RAT-TYPE-START

RAT-Type ::= ENUMERATED {nr, eutra-nr, eutra, utra-fdd-v1610, ...}

-- TAG-RAT-TYPE-STOP
-- ASN1STOP

–	RedCapParameters
The IE RedCapParameters is used to indicate the UE capabilities supported by RedCap UEs.
RedCapParameters information element
-- ASN1START
-- TAG-REDCAPPARAMETERS-START

RedCapParameters-r17::=                   SEQUENCE {
    -- R1 28-1: RedCap UE
    supportOfRedCap-r17                       ENUMERATED {supported}                                      OPTIONAL,
    supportOf16DRB-RedCap-r17                 ENUMERATED {supported}                                      OPTIONAL
}

RedCapParameters-v1740::=                 SEQUENCE {
    ncd-SSB-ForRedCapInitialBWP-SDT-r17       ENUMERATED {supported}                                      OPTIONAL
}

-- TAG-REDCAPPARAMETERS-STOP
-- ASN1STOP

–	RF-Parameters
The IE RF-Parameters is used to convey RF-related capabilities for NR operation.
RF-Parameters information element
-- ASN1START
-- TAG-RF-PARAMETERS-START

RF-Parameters ::=                                   SEQUENCE {
    supportedBandListNR                                 SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxBands)) OF BandNR,
    supportedBandCombinationList                        BandCombinationList                         OPTIONAL,
    appliedFreqBandListFilter                           FreqBandList                                OPTIONAL,
    ...,
    [[
    supportedBandCombinationList-v1540                  BandCombinationList-v1540                   OPTIONAL,
    srs-SwitchingTimeRequested                          ENUMERATED {true}                           OPTIONAL
    ]],
    [[
    supportedBandCombinationList-v1550                  BandCombinationList-v1550                   OPTIONAL
    ]],
    [[
    supportedBandCombinationList-v1560                  BandCombinationList-v1560                   OPTIONAL
    ]],
    [[
    supportedBandCombinationList-v1610                  BandCombinationList-v1610                   OPTIONAL,
    supportedBandCombinationListSidelinkEUTRA-NR-r16    BandCombinationListSidelinkEUTRA-NR-r16     OPTIONAL,
    supportedBandCombinationList-UplinkTxSwitch-r16     BandCombinationList-UplinkTxSwitch-r16      OPTIONAL
    ]],
    [[
    supportedBandCombinationList-v1630                  BandCombinationList-v1630                   OPTIONAL,
    supportedBandCombinationListSidelinkEUTRA-NR-v1630  BandCombinationListSidelinkEUTRA-NR-v1630   OPTIONAL,
    supportedBandCombinationList-UplinkTxSwitch-v1630   BandCombinationList-UplinkTxSwitch-v1630    OPTIONAL
    ]],
    [[
    supportedBandCombinationList-v1640                  BandCombinationList-v1640                   OPTIONAL,
    supportedBandCombinationList-UplinkTxSwitch-v1640   BandCombinationList-UplinkTxSwitch-v1640    OPTIONAL
    ]],
    [[
    supportedBandCombinationList-v1650                  BandCombinationList-v1650                   OPTIONAL,
    supportedBandCombinationList-UplinkTxSwitch-v1650   BandCombinationList-UplinkTxSwitch-v1650    OPTIONAL
    ]],
    [[
    extendedBand-n77-r16                                ENUMERATED {supported}                      OPTIONAL
    ]],
    [[
    supportedBandCombinationList-UplinkTxSwitch-v1670   BandCombinationList-UplinkTxSwitch-v1670    OPTIONAL
    ]],
    [[
    supportedBandCombinationList-v1680                  BandCombinationList-v1680                   OPTIONAL
    ]],
    [[
    supportedBandCombinationList-v1690                  BandCombinationList-v1690                   OPTIONAL,
    supportedBandCombinationList-UplinkTxSwitch-v1690   BandCombinationList-UplinkTxSwitch-v1690    OPTIONAL
    ]],
    [[
    supportedBandCombinationList-v1700                  BandCombinationList-v1700                   OPTIONAL,
    supportedBandCombinationList-UplinkTxSwitch-v1700   BandCombinationList-UplinkTxSwitch-v1700    OPTIONAL,
    supportedBandCombinationListSL-RelayDiscovery-r17   OCTET STRING                                OPTIONAL,  -- Contains PC5 BandCombinationListSidelinkNR-r16
    supportedBandCombinationListSL-NonRelayDiscovery-r17 OCTET STRING                               OPTIONAL,  -- Contains PC5 BandCombinationListSidelinkNR-r16
    supportedBandCombinationListSidelinkEUTRA-NR-v1710  BandCombinationListSidelinkEUTRA-NR-v1710   OPTIONAL,
    sidelinkRequested-r17                               ENUMERATED {true}                           OPTIONAL,
    extendedBand-n77-2-r17                              ENUMERATED {supported}                      OPTIONAL
    ]],
    [[
    supportedBandCombinationList-v1720                  BandCombinationList-v1720                   OPTIONAL,
    supportedBandCombinationList-UplinkTxSwitch-v1720   BandCombinationList-UplinkTxSwitch-v1720    OPTIONAL
    ]],
    [[
    supportedBandCombinationList-v1730                  BandCombinationList-v1730                   OPTIONAL,
    supportedBandCombinationList-UplinkTxSwitch-v1730   BandCombinationList-UplinkTxSwitch-v1730    OPTIONAL,
    supportedBandCombinationListSL-RelayDiscovery-v1730 BandCombinationListSL-Discovery-r17         OPTIONAL,
    supportedBandCombinationListSL-NonRelayDiscovery-v1730 BandCombinationListSL-Discovery-r17      OPTIONAL
    ]],
    [[
    supportedBandCombinationList-v1740                  BandCombinationList-v1740                   OPTIONAL,
    supportedBandCombinationList-UplinkTxSwitch-v1740   BandCombinationList-UplinkTxSwitch-v1740    OPTIONAL
    ]],
    [[
    supportedBandCombinationList-v1760                  BandCombinationList-v1760                   OPTIONAL,
    supportedBandCombinationList-UplinkTxSwitch-v1760   BandCombinationList-UplinkTxSwitch-v1760    OPTIONAL
    ]],
    [[
    dummy1                                              BandCombinationList-v1770                   OPTIONAL,
    dummy2                                              BandCombinationList-UplinkTxSwitch-v1770    OPTIONAL
    ]],
    [[
    supportedBandCombinationList-v1780                  BandCombinationList-v1780                   OPTIONAL,
    supportedBandCombinationList-UplinkTxSwitch-v1780   BandCombinationList-UplinkTxSwitch-v1780    OPTIONAL
    ]],
    [[
    supportedBandCombinationList-v1800                  BandCombinationList-v1800                   OPTIONAL,
    supportedBandCombinationList-UplinkTxSwitch-v1800   BandCombinationList-UplinkTxSwitch-v1800    OPTIONAL,
    supportedBandCombinationListSL-U2U-Relay-r18        SEQUENCE {
        supportedBandCombinationListSL-U2U-RelayDiscovery-r18  OCTET STRING             OPTIONAL,  -- Contains PC5
                                                                                                   -- BandCombinationListSidelinkNR-r16
        supportedBandCombinationListSL-U2U-DiscoveryExt BandCombinationListSL-Discovery-r17         OPTIONAL
    }                                                                                               OPTIONAL
    ]],
    [[
    supportedBandCombinationList-v1830                  BandCombinationList-v1830                   OPTIONAL,
    supportedBandCombinationList-UplinkTxSwitch-v1830   BandCombinationList-UplinkTxSwitch-v1830    OPTIONAL
    ]],
    [[
    supportedBandCombinationList-v1840                  BandCombinationList-v1840                   OPTIONAL,
    supportedBandCombinationList-UplinkTxSwitch-v1840   BandCombinationList-UplinkTxSwitch-v1840    OPTIONAL
    ]],
    [[
    supportedBandCombinationList-v1860                  BandCombinationList-v1860                   OPTIONAL,
    supportedBandCombinationList-UplinkTxSwitch-v1860   BandCombinationList-UplinkTxSwitch-v1860    OPTIONAL
    ]]
}

RF-Parameters-v15g0 ::=                   SEQUENCE {
    supportedBandCombinationList-v15g0        BandCombinationList-v15g0                   OPTIONAL
}

RF-Parameters-v16a0 ::=                            SEQUENCE {
    supportedBandCombinationList-v16a0                 BandCombinationList-v16a0                    OPTIONAL,
    supportedBandCombinationList-UplinkTxSwitch-v16a0  BandCombinationList-UplinkTxSwitch-v16a0     OPTIONAL
}

RF-Parameters-v16c0 ::=                            SEQUENCE {
    supportedBandListNR-v16c0                          SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxBands)) OF BandNR-v16c0
}

RF-Parameters-v16j0 ::=                            SEQUENCE {
    supportedBandCombinationList-v16j0                 BandCombinationList-v16j0                    OPTIONAL,
    supportedBandCombinationList-UplinkTxSwitch-v16j0  BandCombinationList-UplinkTxSwitch-v16j0     OPTIONAL
}

RF-Parameters-v17b0 ::=                            SEQUENCE {
    supportedBandListNR-v17b0                          SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxBands)) OF BandNR-v17b0 OPTIONAL,
    supportedBandCombinationList-v17b0                 BandCombinationList-v17b0                    OPTIONAL,
    supportedBandCombinationList-UplinkTxSwitch-v17b0  BandCombinationList-UplinkTxSwitch-v17b0     OPTIONAL
}

BandNR ::=                          SEQUENCE {
    bandNR                              FreqBandIndicatorNR,
    modifiedMPR-Behaviour               BIT STRING (SIZE (8))                           OPTIONAL,
    mimo-ParametersPerBand              MIMO-ParametersPerBand                          OPTIONAL,
    extendedCP                          ENUMERATED {supported}                          OPTIONAL,
    multipleTCI                         ENUMERATED {supported}                          OPTIONAL,
    bwp-WithoutRestriction              ENUMERATED {supported}                          OPTIONAL,
    bwp-SameNumerology                  ENUMERATED {upto2, upto4}                       OPTIONAL,
    bwp-DiffNumerology                  ENUMERATED {upto4}                              OPTIONAL,
    crossCarrierScheduling-SameSCS      ENUMERATED {supported}                          OPTIONAL,
    pdsch-256QAM-FR2                    ENUMERATED {supported}                          OPTIONAL,
    pusch-256QAM                        ENUMERATED {supported}                          OPTIONAL,
    ue-PowerClass                       ENUMERATED {pc1, pc2, pc3, pc4}                 OPTIONAL,
    rateMatchingLTE-CRS                 ENUMERATED {supported}                          OPTIONAL,
    channelBWs-DL                       CHOICE {
        fr1                                 SEQUENCE {
            scs-15kHz                           BIT STRING (SIZE (10))                      OPTIONAL,
            scs-30kHz                           BIT STRING (SIZE (10))                      OPTIONAL,
            scs-60kHz                           BIT STRING (SIZE (10))                      OPTIONAL
        },
        fr2                                 SEQUENCE {
            scs-60kHz                           BIT STRING (SIZE (3))                       OPTIONAL,
            scs-120kHz                          BIT STRING (SIZE (3))                       OPTIONAL
        }
    }                                                                                   OPTIONAL,
    channelBWs-UL                       CHOICE {
        fr1                                 SEQUENCE {
            scs-15kHz                           BIT STRING (SIZE (10))                      OPTIONAL,
            scs-30kHz                           BIT STRING (SIZE (10))                      OPTIONAL,
            scs-60kHz                           BIT STRING (SIZE (10))                      OPTIONAL
        },
        fr2                                 SEQUENCE {
            scs-60kHz                           BIT STRING (SIZE (3))                       OPTIONAL,
            scs-120kHz                          BIT STRING (SIZE (3))                       OPTIONAL
        }
    }                                                                                   OPTIONAL,
    ...,
    [[
    maxUplinkDutyCycle-PC2-FR1                  ENUMERATED {n60, n70, n80, n90, n100}   OPTIONAL
    ]],
    [[
    pucch-SpatialRelInfoMAC-CE          ENUMERATED {supported}                          OPTIONAL,
    powerBoosting-pi2BPSK               ENUMERATED {supported}                          OPTIONAL
    ]],
    [[
    maxUplinkDutyCycle-FR2          ENUMERATED {n15, n20, n25, n30, n40, n50, n60, n70, n80, n90, n100}     OPTIONAL
    ]],
    [[
    channelBWs-DL-v1590                 CHOICE {
        fr1                                 SEQUENCE {
            scs-15kHz                           BIT STRING (SIZE (16))              OPTIONAL,
            scs-30kHz                           BIT STRING (SIZE (16))              OPTIONAL,
            scs-60kHz                           BIT STRING (SIZE (16))              OPTIONAL
        },
        fr2                                 SEQUENCE {
            scs-60kHz                           BIT STRING (SIZE (8))               OPTIONAL,
            scs-120kHz                          BIT STRING (SIZE (8))               OPTIONAL
        }
    }                                                                               OPTIONAL,
    channelBWs-UL-v1590                 CHOICE {
        fr1                                 SEQUENCE {
            scs-15kHz                           BIT STRING (SIZE (16))              OPTIONAL,
            scs-30kHz                           BIT STRING (SIZE (16))              OPTIONAL,
            scs-60kHz                           BIT STRING (SIZE (16))              OPTIONAL
        },
        fr2                                 SEQUENCE {
            scs-60kHz                           BIT STRING (SIZE (8))               OPTIONAL,
            scs-120kHz                          BIT STRING (SIZE (8))               OPTIONAL
        }
    }                                                                               OPTIONAL
    ]],
    [[
    asymmetricBandwidthCombinationSet     BIT STRING (SIZE (1..32))           OPTIONAL
    ]],
    [[
    -- R1 10: NR-unlicensed
    sharedSpectrumChAccessParamsPerBand-r16 SharedSpectrumChAccessParamsPerBand-r16 OPTIONAL,
    -- R1 11-7b: Independent cancellation of the overlapping PUSCHs in an intra-band UL CA
    cancelOverlappingPUSCH-r16              ENUMERATED {supported}                  OPTIONAL,
    -- R1 14-1: Multiple LTE-CRS rate matching patterns
    multipleRateMatchingEUTRA-CRS-r16       SEQUENCE {
        maxNumberPatterns-r16               INTEGER (2..6),
        maxNumberNon-OverlapPatterns-r16    INTEGER (1..3)
    }                                                                               OPTIONAL,
    -- R1 14-1a: Two LTE-CRS overlapping rate matching patterns within a part of NR carrier using 15 kHz overlapping with a LTE carrier
    overlapRateMatchingEUTRA-CRS-r16        ENUMERATED {supported}                  OPTIONAL,
    -- R1 14-2: PDSCH Type B mapping of length 9 and 10 OFDM symbols
    pdsch-MappingTypeB-Alt-r16              ENUMERATED {supported}                  OPTIONAL,
    -- R1 14-3: One slot periodic TRS configuration for FR1
    oneSlotPeriodicTRS-r16                  ENUMERATED {supported}                  OPTIONAL,
    olpc-SRS-Pos-r16                        OLPC-SRS-Pos-r16                        OPTIONAL,
    spatialRelationsSRS-Pos-r16             SpatialRelationsSRS-Pos-r16             OPTIONAL,
    simulSRS-MIMO-TransWithinBand-r16       ENUMERATED {n2}                         OPTIONAL,
    channelBW-DL-IAB-r16                    CHOICE {
        fr1-100mhz                              SEQUENCE {
            scs-15kHz                               ENUMERATED {supported}          OPTIONAL,
            scs-30kHz                               ENUMERATED {supported}          OPTIONAL,
            scs-60kHz                               ENUMERATED {supported}          OPTIONAL
        },
        fr2-200mhz                          SEQUENCE {
            scs-60kHz                           ENUMERATED {supported}              OPTIONAL,
            scs-120kHz                          ENUMERATED {supported}              OPTIONAL
        }
    }                                                                               OPTIONAL,
    channelBW-UL-IAB-r16                    CHOICE {
        fr1-100mhz                              SEQUENCE {
            scs-15kHz                               ENUMERATED {supported}          OPTIONAL,
            scs-30kHz                               ENUMERATED {supported}          OPTIONAL,
            scs-60kHz                               ENUMERATED {supported}          OPTIONAL
        },
        fr2-200mhz                              SEQUENCE {
            scs-60kHz                               ENUMERATED {supported}          OPTIONAL,
            scs-120kHz                              ENUMERATED {supported}          OPTIONAL
        }
    }                                                                               OPTIONAL,
    rasterShift7dot5-IAB-r16                ENUMERATED {supported}                  OPTIONAL,
    ue-PowerClass-v1610                     ENUMERATED {pc1dot5}                    OPTIONAL,
    condHandover-r16                        ENUMERATED {supported}                  OPTIONAL,
    condHandoverFailure-r16                 ENUMERATED {supported}                  OPTIONAL,
    condHandoverTwoTriggerEvents-r16        ENUMERATED {supported}                  OPTIONAL,
    condPSCellChange-r16                    ENUMERATED {supported}                  OPTIONAL,
    condPSCellChangeTwoTriggerEvents-r16    ENUMERATED {supported}                  OPTIONAL,
    mpr-PowerBoost-FR2-r16                  ENUMERATED {supported}                  OPTIONAL,

    -- R1 11-9: Multiple active configured grant configurations for a BWP of a serving cell
    activeConfiguredGrant-r16               SEQUENCE {
    maxNumberConfigsPerBWP-r16                  ENUMERATED {n1, n2, n4, n8, n12},
    maxNumberConfigsAllCC-r16                   INTEGER (2..32)
    }                                                                               OPTIONAL,
    -- R1 11-9a: Joint release in a DCI for two or more configured grant Type 2 configurations for a given BWP of a serving cell
    jointReleaseConfiguredGrantType2-r16    ENUMERATED {supported}                  OPTIONAL,
    -- R1 12-2: Multiple SPS configurations
    sps-r16                                 SEQUENCE {
    maxNumberConfigsPerBWP-r16                  INTEGER (1..8),
    maxNumberConfigsAllCC-r16                   INTEGER (2..32)
    }                                                                               OPTIONAL,
    -- R1 12-2a: Joint release in a DCI for two or more SPS configurations for a given BWP of a serving cell
    jointReleaseSPS-r16                     ENUMERATED {supported}                  OPTIONAL,
    -- R1 13-19: Simultaneous positioning SRS and MIMO SRS transmission within a band across multiple CCs
    simulSRS-TransWithinBand-r16            ENUMERATED {n2}                         OPTIONAL,
    trs-AdditionalBandwidth-r16             ENUMERATED {trs-AddBW-Set1, trs-AddBW-Set2}  OPTIONAL,
    handoverIntraF-IAB-r16                  ENUMERATED {supported}                  OPTIONAL
    ]],
    [[
    -- R1 22-5a: Simultaneous transmission of SRS for antenna switching and SRS for CB/NCB /BM for intra-band UL CA
    -- R1 22-5c: Simultaneous transmission of SRS for antenna switching and SRS for antenna switching for intra-band UL CA
    simulTX-SRS-AntSwitchingIntraBandUL-CA-r16  SimulSRS-ForAntennaSwitching-r16            OPTIONAL,
    -- R1 10: NR-unlicensed
    sharedSpectrumChAccessParamsPerBand-v1630   SharedSpectrumChAccessParamsPerBand-v1630   OPTIONAL
    ]],
    [[
    handoverUTRA-FDD-r16                      ENUMERATED {supported}                       OPTIONAL,
    -- R4 7-4: Report the shorter transient capability supported by the UE: 2, 4 or 7us
    enhancedUL-TransientPeriod-r16            ENUMERATED {us2, us4, us7}                   OPTIONAL,
    sharedSpectrumChAccessParamsPerBand-v1640 SharedSpectrumChAccessParamsPerBand-v1640    OPTIONAL
    ]],
    [[
    type1-PUSCH-RepetitionMultiSlots-v1650    ENUMERATED {supported}                       OPTIONAL,
    type2-PUSCH-RepetitionMultiSlots-v1650    ENUMERATED {supported}                       OPTIONAL,
    pusch-RepetitionMultiSlots-v1650          ENUMERATED {supported}                       OPTIONAL,
    configuredUL-GrantType1-v1650             ENUMERATED {supported}                       OPTIONAL,
    configuredUL-GrantType2-v1650             ENUMERATED {supported}                       OPTIONAL,
    sharedSpectrumChAccessParamsPerBand-v1650 SharedSpectrumChAccessParamsPerBand-v1650    OPTIONAL
    ]],
    [[
    enhancedSkipUplinkTxConfigured-v1660      ENUMERATED {supported}                       OPTIONAL,
    enhancedSkipUplinkTxDynamic-v1660         ENUMERATED {supported}                       OPTIONAL
    ]],
    [[
    maxUplinkDutyCycle-PC1dot5-MPE-FR1-r16    ENUMERATED {n10, n15, n20, n25, n30, n40, n50, n60, n70, n80, n90, n100}   OPTIONAL,
    txDiversity-r16                           ENUMERATED {supported}                       OPTIONAL
    ]],
    [[
     -- R1 36-1: Support of 1024QAM for PDSCH for FR1
    pdsch-1024QAM-FR1-r17                     ENUMERATED {supported}                       OPTIONAL,
     -- R4 22-1 support of FR2 HST operation
    ue-PowerClass-v1700                       ENUMERATED {pc5, pc6, pc7}                   OPTIONAL,
    -- R1 24: NR extension to 71GHz (FR2-2)
    fr2-2-AccessParamsPerBand-r17             FR2-2-AccessParamsPerBand-r17                OPTIONAL,
    rlm-Relaxation-r17                        ENUMERATED {supported}                       OPTIONAL,
    bfd-Relaxation-r17                        ENUMERATED {supported}                       OPTIONAL,
    cg-SDT-r17                                ENUMERATED {supported}                       OPTIONAL,
    locationBasedCondHandover-r17             ENUMERATED {supported}                       OPTIONAL,
    timeBasedCondHandover-r17                 ENUMERATED {supported}                       OPTIONAL,
    eventA4BasedCondHandover-r17              ENUMERATED {supported}                       OPTIONAL,
    mn-InitiatedCondPSCellChangeNRDC-r17      ENUMERATED {supported}                       OPTIONAL,
    sn-InitiatedCondPSCellChangeNRDC-r17      ENUMERATED {supported}                       OPTIONAL,
    -- R1 29-3a: PDCCH skipping
    pdcch-SkippingWithoutSSSG-r17             ENUMERATED {supported}                       OPTIONAL,
    -- R1 29-3b: 2 search space sets group switching
    sssg-Switching-1BitInd-r17                ENUMERATED {supported}                       OPTIONAL,
    -- R1 29-3c: 3 search space sets group switching
    sssg-Switching-2BitInd-r17                ENUMERATED {supported}                       OPTIONAL,
    -- R1 29-3d: 2 search space sets group switching with PDCCH skipping
    pdcch-SkippingWithSSSG-r17                ENUMERATED {supported}                       OPTIONAL,
    -- R1 29-3e: Support Search space set group switching capability 2 for FR1
    searchSpaceSetGrp-switchCap2-r17          ENUMERATED {supported}                       OPTIONAL,
    -- R1 26-1: Uplink Time and Frequency pre-compensation and timing relationship enhancements
    uplinkPreCompensation-r17                 ENUMERATED {supported}                       OPTIONAL,
    -- R1 26-4: UE reporting of information related to TA pre-compensation
    uplink-TA-Reporting-r17                   ENUMERATED {supported}                       OPTIONAL,
    -- R1 26-5: Increasing the number of HARQ processes
    max-HARQ-ProcessNumber-r17                ENUMERATED {u16d32, u32d16, u32d32}          OPTIONAL,
    -- R1 26-6: Type-2 HARQ codebook enhancement
    type2-HARQ-Codebook-r17                   ENUMERATED {supported}                       OPTIONAL,
    -- R1 26-6a: Type-1 HARQ codebook enhancement
    type1-HARQ-Codebook-r17                   ENUMERATED {supported}                       OPTIONAL,
    -- R1 26-6b: Type-3 HARQ codebook enhancement
    type3-HARQ-Codebook-r17                   ENUMERATED {supported}                       OPTIONAL,
    -- R1 26-9: UE-specific K_offset
    ue-specific-K-Offset-r17                  ENUMERATED {supported}                       OPTIONAL,
    -- R1 24-1f: Multiple PDSCH scheduling by single DCI for 120kHz in FR2-1
    multiPDSCH-SingleDCI-FR2-1-SCS-120kHz-r17 ENUMERATED {supported}                       OPTIONAL,
    -- R1 24-1g: Multiple PUSCH scheduling by single DCI for 120kHz in FR2-1
    multiPUSCH-SingleDCI-FR2-1-SCS-120kHz-r17 ENUMERATED {supported}                       OPTIONAL,
    -- R4 14-4: Parallel PRS measurements in RRC_INACTIVE state, FR1/FR2 diff
    parallelPRS-MeasRRC-Inactive-r17          ENUMERATED {supported}                       OPTIONAL,
    -- R1 27-1-2: Support of UE-TxTEGs for UL TDOA
    nr-UE-TxTEG-ID-MaxSupport-r17             ENUMERATED {n1, n2, n3, n4, n6, n8}          OPTIONAL,
    -- R1 27-17: PRS processing in RRC_INACTIVE
    prs-ProcessingRRC-Inactive-r17            ENUMERATED {supported}                       OPTIONAL,
    -- R1 27-3-2: DL PRS measurement outside MG and in a PRS processing window
    prs-ProcessingWindowType1A-r17            ENUMERATED {option1, option2, option3}       OPTIONAL,
    prs-ProcessingWindowType1B-r17            ENUMERATED {option1, option2, option3}       OPTIONAL,
    prs-ProcessingWindowType2-r17             ENUMERATED {option1, option2, option3}       OPTIONAL,
    -- R1 27-15: Positioning SRS transmission in RRC_INACTIVE state for initial UL BWP
    srs-AllPosResourcesRRC-Inactive-r17       SRS-AllPosResourcesRRC-Inactive-r17          OPTIONAL,
    -- R1 27-16: OLPC for positioning SRS in RRC_INACTIVE state - gNB
    olpc-SRS-PosRRC-Inactive-r17              OLPC-SRS-Pos-r16                             OPTIONAL,
    -- R1 27-19: Spatial relation for positioning SRS in RRC_INACTIVE state - gNB
    spatialRelationsSRS-PosRRC-Inactive-r17   SpatialRelationsSRS-Pos-r16                  OPTIONAL,
    -- R1 30-1: Increased maximum number of PUSCH Type A repetitions
    maxNumberPUSCH-TypeA-Repetition-r17       ENUMERATED {supported}                       OPTIONAL,
    -- R1 30-2: PUSCH Type A repetitions based on available slots
    puschTypeA-RepetitionsAvailSlot-r17       ENUMERATED {supported}                       OPTIONAL,
    -- R1 30-3: TB processing over multi-slot PUSCH
    tb-ProcessingMultiSlotPUSCH-r17           ENUMERATED {supported}                       OPTIONAL,
    -- R1 30-3a: Repetition of TB processing over multi-slot PUSCH
    tb-ProcessingRepMultiSlotPUSCH-r17        ENUMERATED {supported}                       OPTIONAL,
    -- R1 30-4: The maximum duration for DM-RS bundling
    maxDurationDMRS-Bundling-r17              SEQUENCE {
        fdd-r17                                   ENUMERATED {n4, n8, n16, n32}            OPTIONAL,
        tdd-r17                                   ENUMERATED {n2, n4, n8, n16}             OPTIONAL
    }                                                                                      OPTIONAL,
    -- R1 30-6: Repetition of PUSCH transmission scheduled by RAR UL grant and DCI format 0_0 with CRC scrambled by TC-RNTI
    pusch-RepetitionMsg3-r17                  ENUMERATED {supported}                       OPTIONAL,
    sharedSpectrumChAccessParamsPerBand-v1710 SharedSpectrumChAccessParamsPerBand-v1710    OPTIONAL,
    -- R4 25-2: Parallel measurements on cells belonging to a different NGSO satellite than a serving satellite without scheduling restrictions
    -- on normal operations with the serving cell
    parallelMeasurementWithoutRestriction-r17 ENUMERATED {supported}                       OPTIONAL,
    -- R4 25-5: Parallel measurements on multiple NGSO satellites within a SMTC
    maxNumber-NGSO-SatellitesWithinOneSMTC-r17 ENUMERATED {n1, n2, n3, n4}                 OPTIONAL,
    -- R1 26-10: K1 range extension
    k1-RangeExtension-r17                     ENUMERATED {supported}                       OPTIONAL,
    -- R1 35-1: Aperiodic CSI-RS for tracking for fast SCell activation
    aperiodicCSI-RS-FastScellActivation-r17   SEQUENCE {
        maxNumberAperiodicCSI-RS-PerCC-r17        ENUMERATED {n8, n16, n32, n48, n64, n128, n255},
        maxNumberAperiodicCSI-RS-AcrossCCs-r17    ENUMERATED {n8, n16, n32, n64, n128, n256, n512, n1024}
    }                                                                                      OPTIONAL,
    -- R1 35-2: Aperiodic CSI-RS bandwidth for tracking for fast SCell activation for 10MHz UE channel bandwidth
    aperiodicCSI-RS-AdditionalBandwidth-r17   ENUMERATED {addBW-Set1, addBW-Set2}          OPTIONAL,
    -- R1 28-1a: RRC-configured DL BWP without CD-SSB or NCD-SSB
    bwp-WithoutCD-SSB-OrNCD-SSB-RedCap-r17    ENUMERATED {supported}                       OPTIONAL,
    -- R1 28-3: Half-duplex FDD operation type A for (e)RedCap UE
    halfDuplexFDD-TypeA-RedCap-r17            ENUMERATED {supported}                       OPTIONAL,
     -- R1 27-15b: Positioning SRS transmission in RRC_INACTIVE state configured outside initial UL BWP
    posSRS-RRC-Inactive-OutsideInitialUL-BWP-r17 PosSRS-RRC-Inactive-OutsideInitialUL-BWP-r17 OPTIONAL,
     -- R4 15-3 UE support of CBW for 480kHz SCS
    channelBWs-DL-SCS-480kHz-FR2-2-r17        BIT STRING (SIZE (8))                        OPTIONAL,
    channelBWs-UL-SCS-480kHz-FR2-2-r17        BIT STRING (SIZE (8))                        OPTIONAL,
    -- R4 15-4 UE support of CBW for 960kHz SCS
    channelBWs-DL-SCS-960kHz-FR2-2-r17        BIT STRING (SIZE (8))                        OPTIONAL,
    channelBWs-UL-SCS-960kHz-FR2-2-r17        BIT STRING (SIZE (8))                        OPTIONAL,
    -- R4 17-1 UL gap for Tx power management
    ul-GapFR2-r17                             ENUMERATED {supported}                       OPTIONAL,
    -- R1 25-4: One-shot HARQ ACK feedback triggered by DCI format 1_2
    oneShotHARQ-feedbackTriggeredByDCI-1-2-r17 ENUMERATED {supported}                      OPTIONAL,
    -- R1 25-5: PHY priority handling for one-shot HARQ ACK feedback
    oneShotHARQ-feedbackPhy-Priority-r17      ENUMERATED {supported}                       OPTIONAL,
    -- R1 25-6: Enhanced type 3 HARQ-ACK codebook feedback
    enhancedType3-HARQ-CodebookFeedback-r17   SEQUENCE {
        enhancedType3-HARQ-Codebooks-r17          ENUMERATED {n1, n2, n4, n8},
        maxNumberPUCCH-Transmissions-r17          ENUMERATED {n1, n2, n3, n4, n5, n6, n7}
    }                                                                                      OPTIONAL,
    -- R1 25-7: Triggered HARQ-ACK codebook re-transmission
    triggeredHARQ-CodebookRetx-r17              SEQUENCE {
        minHARQ-Retx-Offset-r17                     ENUMERATED {n-7, n-5, n-3, n-1, n1},
        maxHARQ-Retx-Offset-r17                     ENUMERATED {n4, n6, n8, n10, n12, n14, n16, n18, n20, n22, n24}
    }                                                                                      OPTIONAL
    ]],
    [[
    -- R4 22-2 support of one shot large UL timing adjustment
    ue-OneShotUL-TimingAdj-r17                        ENUMERATED {supported}               OPTIONAL,
    -- R1 25-2: Repetitions for PUCCH format 0, and 2 over multiple slots with K = 2, 4, 8
    pucch-Repetition-F0-2-r17                         ENUMERATED {supported}               OPTIONAL,
    -- R1 25-11a: 4-bits subband CQI for NTN and unlicensed
    cqi-4-BitsSubbandNTN-SharedSpectrumChAccess-r17   ENUMERATED {supported}               OPTIONAL,
    -- R1 25-16: HARQ-ACK with different priorities multiplexing on a PUCCH/PUSCH
    mux-HARQ-ACK-DiffPriorities-r17                   ENUMERATED {supported}               OPTIONAL,
    -- R1 25-20a: Propagation delay compensation based on Rel-15 TA procedure for NTN and unlicensed
    ta-BasedPDC-NTN-SharedSpectrumChAccess-r17        ENUMERATED {supported}               OPTIONAL,
    -- R1 33-2b: DCI-based enabling/disabling ACK/NACK-based feedback for dynamic scheduling for multicast
    ack-NACK-FeedbackForMulticastWithDCI-Enabler-r17  ENUMERATED {supported}               OPTIONAL,
    -- R1 33-2e: Multiple G-RNTIs for group-common PDSCHs
    maxNumberG-RNTI-r17                               INTEGER (2..8)                       OPTIONAL,
    -- R1 33-2f: Dynamic multicast with DCI format 4_2
    dynamicMulticastDCI-Format4-2-r17                 ENUMERATED {supported}               OPTIONAL,
    -- R1 33-2i: Supported maximal modulation order for multicast PDSCH
    maxModulationOrderForMulticast-r17                CHOICE {
        fr1-r17                                           ENUMERATED {qam256, qam1024},
        fr2-r17                                           ENUMERATED {qam64, qam256}
    }                                                                                                                          OPTIONAL,
    -- R1 33-3-1: Dynamic Slot-level repetition for group-common PDSCH for TN and licensed
    dynamicSlotRepetitionMulticastTN-NonSharedSpectrumChAccess-r17  ENUMERATED {n8, n16}                                       OPTIONAL,
    -- R1 33-3-1a: Dynamic Slot-level repetition for group-common PDSCH for NTN and unlicensed
    dynamicSlotRepetitionMulticastNTN-SharedSpectrumChAccess-r17    ENUMERATED {n8, n16}                                       OPTIONAL,
    -- R1 33-4-1: DCI-based enabling/disabling NACK-only based feedback for dynamic scheduling for multicast
    nack-OnlyFeedbackForMulticastWithDCI-Enabler-r17                ENUMERATED {supported}                                     OPTIONAL,
    -- R1 33-5-1b: DCI-based enabling/disabling ACK/NACK-based feedback for dynamic scheduling for multicast
    ack-NACK-FeedbackForSPS-MulticastWithDCI-Enabler-r17            ENUMERATED {supported}                                     OPTIONAL,
    -- R1 33-5-1h: Multiple G-CS-RNTIs for SPS group-common PDSCHs
    maxNumberG-CS-RNTI-r17                                          INTEGER (2..8)                                             OPTIONAL,
    -- R1 33-10: Support group-common PDSCH RE-level rate matching for multicast
    re-LevelRateMatchingForMulticast-r17                            ENUMERATED {supported}                                     OPTIONAL,
     -- R1 36-1a: Support of 1024QAM for PDSCH with maximum 2 MIMO layers for FR1
    pdsch-1024QAM-2MIMO-FR1-r17                                     ENUMERATED {supported}                                     OPTIONAL,
     -- R4 14-3 PRS measurement without MG
    prs-MeasurementWithoutMG-r17                                    ENUMERATED {cpLength, quarterSymbol, halfSymbol, halfSlot} OPTIONAL,
    -- R4 25-7: The number of target NGSO satellites the UE can monitor per carrier
    maxNumber-NGSO-SatellitesPerCarrier-r17                         INTEGER (3..4)                                             OPTIONAL,
    -- R1 27-3-3 DL PRS Processing Capability outside MG - buffering capability
    prs-ProcessingCapabilityOutsideMGinPPW-r17    SEQUENCE (SIZE(1..3)) OF PRS-ProcessingCapabilityOutsideMGinPPWperType-r17   OPTIONAL,
    -- R1 27-15a: Positioning SRS transmission in RRC_INACTIVE state for initial UL BWP with semi-persistent SRS
    srs-SemiPersistent-PosResourcesRRC-Inactive-r17                 SEQUENCE {
        maxNumOfSemiPersistentSRSposResources-r17                       ENUMERATED {n1, n2, n4, n8, n16, n32, n64},
        maxNumOfSemiPersistentSRSposResourcesPerSlot-r17                ENUMERATED {n1, n2, n3, n4, n5, n6, n8, n10, n12, n14}
    }                                                                                                                          OPTIONAL,
    -- R2: UE support of CBW for 120kHz SCS
    channelBWs-DL-SCS-120kHz-FR2-2-r17                              BIT STRING (SIZE (8))                                      OPTIONAL,
    channelBWs-UL-SCS-120kHz-FR2-2-r17                              BIT STRING (SIZE (8))                                      OPTIONAL
    ]],
    [[
    -- R1 30-4a: DM-RS bundling for PUSCH repetition type A
    dmrs-BundlingPUSCH-RepTypeA-r17                                 ENUMERATED {supported}                                     OPTIONAL,
    -- R1 30-4b: DM-RS bundling for PUSCH repetition type B
    dmrs-BundlingPUSCH-RepTypeB-r17                                 ENUMERATED {supported}                                     OPTIONAL,
    -- R1 30-4c: DM-RS bundling for TB processing over multi-slot PUSCH
    dmrs-BundlingPUSCH-multiSlot-r17                                ENUMERATED {supported}                                     OPTIONAL,
    -- R1 30-4d: DMRS bundling for PUCCH repetitions
    dmrs-BundlingPUCCH-Rep-r17                                      ENUMERATED {supported}                                     OPTIONAL,
    -- R1 30-4e: Enhanced inter-slot frequency hopping with inter-slot bundling for PUSCH
    interSlotFreqHopInterSlotBundlingPUSCH-r17                      ENUMERATED {supported}                                     OPTIONAL,
    -- R1 30-4f: Enhanced inter-slot frequency hopping for PUCCH repetitions with DMRS bundling
    interSlotFreqHopPUCCH-r17                                       ENUMERATED {supported}                                     OPTIONAL,
    -- R1 30-4g: Restart DM-RS bundling
    dmrs-BundlingRestart-r17                                        ENUMERATED {supported}                                     OPTIONAL,
    -- R1 30-4h: DM-RS bundling for non-back-to-back transmission
    dmrs-BundlingNonBackToBackTX-r17                                ENUMERATED {supported}                                     OPTIONAL
    ]],
    [[
    -- R1 33-5-1e: Dynamic Slot-level repetition for SPS group-common PDSCH for multicast
    maxDynamicSlotRepetitionForSPS-Multicast-r17                    ENUMERATED {n8, n16}                                       OPTIONAL,
    -- R1 33-5-1g: DCI-based enabling/disabling NACK-only based feedback for SPS group-common PDSCH for multicast
    nack-OnlyFeedbackForSPS-MulticastWithDCI-Enabler-r17            ENUMERATED {supported}                                     OPTIONAL,
    -- R1 33-5-1i: Multicast SPS scheduling with DCI format 4_2
    sps-MulticastDCI-Format4-2-r17                                  ENUMERATED {supported}                                     OPTIONAL,
    -- R1 33-5-2: Multiple SPS group-common PDSCH configuration on PCell
    sps-MulticastMultiConfig-r17                                    INTEGER (1..8)                                             OPTIONAL,
    -- R1 33-6-1: DL priority indication for multicast in DCI
    priorityIndicatorInDCI-Multicast-r17                            ENUMERATED {supported}                                     OPTIONAL,
    -- R1 33-6-1a: DL priority configuration for SPS multicast
    priorityIndicatorInDCI-SPS-Multicast-r17                        ENUMERATED {supported}                                     OPTIONAL,
    -- R1 33-6-2: Two HARQ-ACK codebooks simultaneously constructed for supporting HARQ-ACK codebooks with different priorities
    -- for unicast and multicast at a UE
    twoHARQ-ACK-CodebookForUnicastAndMulticast-r17                  ENUMERATED {supported}                                     OPTIONAL,
    -- R1 33-6-3: More than one PUCCH for HARQ-ACK transmission for multicast or for unicast and multicast within a slot
    multiPUCCH-HARQ-ACK-ForMulticastUnicast-r17                     ENUMERATED {supported}                                     OPTIONAL,
    -- R1 33-9: Supporting unicast PDCCH to release SPS group-common PDSCH
    releaseSPS-MulticastWithCS-RNTI-r17                             ENUMERATED {supported}                                     OPTIONAL
    ]],
    [[
    -- R1 41-3-1a  UE automomous TA adjustment when cell-reselection happens
    posUE-TA-AutoAdjustment-r18                                     ENUMERATED {supported}                                     OPTIONAL,
    -- R1 41-3-1: SRS for positioning configuration in multiple cells for UEs in RRC_INACTIVE state for initial UL BWP
    posSRS-ValidityAreaRRC-InactiveInitialUL-BWP-r18                ENUMERATED {supported}                                     OPTIONAL,
    -- R1 41-3-2: SRS for positioning configuration in multiple cells for UEs in RRC_INACTIVE state for configured outside
    -- initial UL BWP
    posSRS-ValidityAreaRRC-InactiveOutsideInitialUL-BWP-r18         ENUMERATED {supported}                                     OPTIONAL,
    -- R1 41-5-1:PRS measurement with Rx frequency hopping within a MG and measurement reporting RRC_CONNECTED for RedCap UEs
    dl-PRS-MeasurementWithRxFH-RRC-ConnectedForRedCap-r18           DL-PRS-MeasurementWithRxFH-RRC-Connected-r18               OPTIONAL,
    -- R1 41-5-2: Support of positioning SRS with Tx frequency hopping in RRC_CONNECTED for RedCap UEs
    posSRS-TxFH-RRC-ConnectedForRedCap-r18                          PosSRS-TxFrequencyHoppingRRC-Connected-r18                 OPTIONAL,
    -- R1 41-5-2a: Support of positioning SRS with Tx frequency hopping in RRC_INACTIVE for RedCap UEs
    posSRS-TxFH-RRC-InactiveForRedCap-r18                           PosSRS-TxFrequencyHoppingRRC-Inactive-r18                  OPTIONAL,
    -- R1 41-4-8: Support of Positioning SRS bandwidth aggregation in RRC_INACTIVE
    posSRS-BWA-RRC-Inactive-r18                                     PosSRS-BWA-RRC-Inactive-r18                                OPTIONAL,
    -- R1 41-4-6a   support a Rel-17 single DCI scheduling positioning SRS resource sets across the linked carriers
    -- for SRS bandwidth aggregation in RRC_CONNECTED state
    posJointTriggerBySingleDCI-RRC-Connected-r18                    ENUMERATED {supported}                                     OPTIONAL,
    -- R1 41-5-1a PRS measurement with Rx frequency hopping in RRC_INACTIVE for RedCap UEs
    dl-PRS-MeasurementWithRxFH-RRC-InactiveforRedCap-r18            ENUMERATED {supported}                                     OPTIONAL,
    -- R1 41-5-1b PRS measurement with Rx frequency hopping in RRC_IDLE for RedCap UEs
    dl-PRS-MeasurementWithRxFH-RRC-IdleforRedCap-r18                ENUMERATED {supported}                                     OPTIONAL,
    -- R1 42-1: Spatial domain adaptation with CSI feedback based on CSI report sub-configuration(s) for periodic CSI reporting
    spatialAdaptation-CSI-Feedback-r18                              SEQUENCE {
        csiFeedbackType-r18                                             ENUMERATED {sdType1, sdType2, both},
        maxNumberLmax-r18                                               INTEGER (2..4),
        maxNumberCSI-ResourcePerCC-r18                                  SEQUENCE {
            sdType1-Resource-r18                                            INTEGER (1..32),
            sdType2-Resource-r18                                            INTEGER (1..32)
        },
        maxNumberTotalCSI-ResourcePerCC-r18                             SEQUENCE {
            sdType1-Resource-r18                                            ENUMERATED {n8, n16, n24, n32, n64, n128},
            sdType2-Resource-r18                                            ENUMERATED {n8, n16, n24, n32, n64, n128}
        },
        totalNumberCSI-Reporting-r18                                    INTEGER (2..4)
    }                                                                                                                          OPTIONAL,
    -- R1 42-1a: Spatial domain adaptation with CSI feedback based on CSI report sub-configuration(s) for periodic CSI
    -- reporting on PUSCH
    spatialAdaptation-CSI-FeedbackPUSCH-r18                         SEQUENCE {
        csiFeedbackType-r18                                             ENUMERATED {sdType1, sdType2, both},
        maxNumberLmax-r18                                               INTEGER (2..8),
        subReportCSI-r18                                                INTEGER (2..4),
        maxNumberCSI-ResourcePerCC-r18                                  INTEGER (1..32),
        maxNumberTotalCSI-ResourcePerCC-r18                             ENUMERATED {n8, n16, n24, n32, n64, n128},
        totalNumberCSI-Reporting-r18                                    INTEGER (2..12)
    }                                                                                                                          OPTIONAL,
    -- R1 42-1b: Spatial domain adaptation with CSI feedback based on CSI report sub-configuration(s) for aperiodic CSI reporting
    spatialAdaptation-CSI-FeedbackAperiodic-r18                     SEQUENCE {
        csiFeedbackType-r18                                             ENUMERATED {sdType1, sdType2, both},
        maxNumberLmax-r18                                               INTEGER (2..8),
        subReportCSI-r18                                                INTEGER (2..4),
        maxNumberCSI-ResourcePerCC-r18                                  SEQUENCE {
            sdType1-Resource-r18                                            INTEGER (1..32),
            sdType2-Resource-r18                                            INTEGER (1..32)
        },
        maxNumberTotalCSI-ResourcePerCC-r18                             SEQUENCE {
            sdType1-Resource-r18                                            ENUMERATED {n8, n16, n24, n32, n64, n128},
            sdType2-Resource-r18                                            ENUMERATED {n8, n16, n24, n32, n64, n128}
        },
        totalNumberCSI-Reporting-r18                                    INTEGER (2..12)
    }                                                                                                                          OPTIONAL,
    -- R1 42-1c: Spatial domain adaptation with CSI feedback based on CSI report sub-configuration(s) for semi-persistent
    -- CSI reporting on PUCCH
    spatialAdaptation-CSI-FeedbackPUCCH-r18                         SEQUENCE {
        csiFeedbackType-r18                                             ENUMERATED {sdType1, sdType2, both},
        maxNumberLmax-r18                                               INTEGER (2..4),
        subReportCSI-r18                                                INTEGER (2..4),
        maxNumberCSI-ResourcePerCC-r18                                  INTEGER (1..32),
        maxNumberTotalCSI-ResourcePerCC-r18                             ENUMERATED {n8, n16, n24, n32, n64, n128},
        totalNumberCSI-Reporting-r18                                    INTEGER (2..4)
    }                                                                                                                          OPTIONAL,
    -- R1 42-2: Power domain adaptation with CSI feedback based on CSI report sub-configuration(s) for periodic CSI reporting
    powerAdaptation-CSI-Feedback-r18                                SEQUENCE {
        maxNumberLmax-r18                                               INTEGER (2..4),
        maxNumberCSI-ResourcePerCC-r18                                  INTEGER (1..32),
        maxNumberTotalCSI-ResourcePerCC-r18                             ENUMERATED {n8, n16, n24, n32, n64, n128},
        totalNumberCSI-Reporting-r18                                    INTEGER (2..4)
    }                                                                                                                          OPTIONAL,
    -- R1 42-2a: Power domain adaptation with CSI feedback based on CSI report sub-configuration(s) for semi-persistent CSI
    -- reporting on PUSCH
    powerAdaptation-CSI-FeedbackPUSCH-r18                           SEQUENCE {
        maxNumberLmax-r18                                               INTEGER (2..8),
        subReportCSI-r18                                                INTEGER (2..4),
        maxNumberCSI-ResourcePerCC-r18                                  INTEGER (1..32),
        maxNumberTotalCSI-ResourcePerCC-r18                             ENUMERATED {n8, n16, n24, n32, n64, n128},
        totalNumberCSI-Reporting-r18                                    INTEGER (2..12)
    }                                                                                                                          OPTIONAL,
    -- R1 42-2b: Power domain adaptation with CSI feedback based on CSI report sub-configuration(s) for aperiodic CSI reporting
    powerAdaptation-CSI-FeedbackAperiodic-r18                       SEQUENCE {
        maxNumberLmax-r18                                               INTEGER (2..8),
        subReportCSI-r18                                                INTEGER (2..4),
        maxNumberCSI-ResourcePerCC-r18                                  INTEGER (1..32),
        maxNumberTotalCSI-ResourcePerCC-r18                             ENUMERATED {n8, n16, n24, n32, n64, n128},
        totalNumberCSI-Reporting-r18                                    INTEGER (2..12)
    }                                                                                                                          OPTIONAL,
    -- R1 42-2c: Power domain adaptation with CSI feedback based on CSI report sub-configuration(s) for semi-persistent CSI
    -- reporting on PUCCH
    powerAdaptation-CSI-FeedbackPUCCH-r18                           SEQUENCE {
        maxNumberLmax-r18                                               INTEGER (2..4),
        subReportCSI-r18                                                INTEGER (2..4),
        maxNumberCSI-ResourcePerCC-r18                                  INTEGER (1..32),
        maxNumberTotalCSI-ResourcePerCC-r18                             ENUMERATED {n8, n16, n24, n32, n64, n128},
        totalNumberCSI-Reporting-r18                                    INTEGER (2..4)
    }                                                                                                                          OPTIONAL,
    -- R1 42-4: Cell DTX and/or DRX operation based on RRC configuration
    nes-CellDTX-DRX-r18                                             ENUMERATED {cellDTXonly, cellDRXonly, both}                OPTIONAL,
    -- R1 42-5: Cell DTX/DRX operation triggered by DCI format 2_9
    nes-CellDTX-DRX-DCI2-9-r18                                      ENUMERATED {supported}                                     OPTIONAL,
    -- R1 42-7: Mixed codebook combination for spatial domain adaptation with CSI feedback based on CSI report sub-configuration(s),
    -- each containing one port subset configuration
    mixCodeBookSpatialAdaptation-r18                                ENUMERATED {supported}                                     OPTIONAL,
    -- R1 42-8: the number of CSI report(s) for which the UE can measure and process reference signals simultaneously in a CC of the
    -- band for which this capability is provided.
    simultaneousCSI-SubReportsPerCC-r18                             INTEGER (1..8)                                             OPTIONAL,
    -- R1 44-2: NTN DMRS bundling enhancement for PUSCH in NGSO scenarios
    ntn-DMRS-BundlingNGSO-r18                                       ENUMERATED {n4, n8, n16, n32}                              OPTIONAL,
    -- R1 45-3: Beam indication with joint DL/UL LTM TCI states
    ltm-BeamIndicationJointTCI-r18                                  SEQUENCE {
        maxNumberJointTCI-PerCell-r18                                   ENUMERATED {n8,n12,n16,n24,n32,n48,n64,n128},
        qcl-Resource-r18                                                ENUMERATED {ssb, trs, both},
        maxNumberJointTCI-AcrossCells-r18                               INTEGER (1..128),
        maxNumberCells-r18                                              INTEGER (1..8)
    }                                                                                                                          OPTIONAL,
    dummy-ltm-MAC-CE-JointTCI-r18                                   SEQUENCE {
        qcl-Resource-r18                                                ENUMERATED {ssb, trs, both},
        maxNumberJointTCI-PerCell-r18                                   INTEGER (1..16),
        maxNumberJointTCI-AcrossCells-r18                               ENUMERATED {n1,n2,n3,n4,n8,n16,n32}
    }                                                                                                                          OPTIONAL,
    -- R1 45-4: Beam indication with separate DL/UL LTM TCI states
    ltm-BeamIndicationSeparateTCI-r18                               SEQUENCE {
        maxNumberDL-TCI-PerCell-r18                                     ENUMERATED {n4,n8,n12,n16,n24,n32,n48,n64,n128},
        maxNumberUL-TCI-PerCell-r18                                     ENUMERATED {n4,n8,n12,n16,n24,n32,n48,n64},
        qcl-Resource-r18                                                ENUMERATED {ssb, trs, both},
        maxNumberDL-TCI-AcrossCells-r18                                 INTEGER (1..128),
        maxNumberUL-TCI-AcrossCells-r18                                 INTEGER (1..64),
        maxNumberCells-r18                                              INTEGER (1..8)
    }                                                                                                                          OPTIONAL,
    dummy-ltm-MAC-CE-SeparateTCI-r18                                SEQUENCE {
        qcl-Resource-r18                                                ENUMERATED {ssb, trs, both},
        maxNumberDL-TCI-PerCell-r18                                     INTEGER (1..8),
        maxNumberUL-TCI-PerCell-r18                                     INTEGER (1..8),
        maxNumberDL-TCI-AcrossCells-r18                                 ENUMERATED {n1,n2,n4,n8,n16},
        maxNumberUL-TCI-AcrossCells-r18                                 ENUMERATED {n1,n2,n4,n8,n16}
    }                                                                                                                          OPTIONAL,
    -- R1 45-5: RACH-based early TA acquisition
    rach-EarlyTA-Measurement-r18                                    INTEGER (1..8)                                             OPTIONAL,
    -- R1 45-6: UE-based TA measurement
    ue-TA-Measurement-r18                                           INTEGER (1..8)                                             OPTIONAL,
    -- R1 45-7: TA indication in cell switch command
    ta-IndicationCellSwitch-r18                                     ENUMERATED {supported}                                     OPTIONAL,
    -- R1 49-8: Triggered HARQ-ACK codebook re-transmission for DCI format 1_3
    triggeredHARQ-CodebookRetxDCI-1-3-r18              SEQUENCE {
        minHARQ-Retx-Offset-r18                            ENUMERATED {n-7, n-5, n-3, n-1, n1},
        maxHARQ-Retx-Offset-r18                            ENUMERATED {n4, n6, n8, n10, n12, n14, n16, n18, n20, n22, n24}
    }                                                                                      OPTIONAL,
    -- R1 49-12: Unified TCI with joint DL/UL TCI update by DCI format 1_3 for intra-cell and inter-cell beam management with more than
    -- one MAC-CE activated joint TCI state per CC
    unifiedJointTCI-MultiMAC-CE-DCI-1-3-r18  SEQUENCE {
        minBeamApplicationTime-r18          CHOICE {
            fr1-r18                          SEQUENCE {
                scs-15kHz-r18                 ENUMERATED {sym1, sym2, sym4, sym7, sym14, sym28, sym42, sym56, sym70}      OPTIONAL,
                scs-30kHz-r18                 ENUMERATED {sym1, sym2, sym4, sym7, sym14, sym28, sym42, sym56, sym70}      OPTIONAL,
                scs-60kHz-r18                 ENUMERATED {sym1, sym2, sym4, sym7, sym14, sym28, sym42, sym56, sym70}      OPTIONAL
            },
            fr2-r18                          SEQUENCE {
                scs-60kHz-r18                 ENUMERATED {sym1, sym2, sym4, sym7, sym14, sym28, sym42, sym56, sym70,
                                                          sym84, sym98, sym112, sym224, sym336}                           OPTIONAL,
                scs-120kHz-r18                ENUMERATED {sym1, sym2, sym4, sym7, sym14, sym28, sym42, sym56, sym70,
                                                          sym84, sym98, sym112, sym224, sym336}                           OPTIONAL
            }
        },
        maxActivatedTCI-PerCC-r18            INTEGER (2..8)                                                               OPTIONAL
    }                                                                                                                     OPTIONAL,
    -- R1 49-12a: Unified TCI with separate DL/UL TCI update by DCI format 1_3 for intra-cell beam management with more than
    -- one MAC-CE activated separate TCI state per CC
    unifiedSeparateTCI-MultiMAC-CE-IntraCell-r18  SEQUENCE {
        minBeamApplicationTime-r18          CHOICE {
            fr1-r18                          SEQUENCE {
                scs-15kHz-r18                 ENUMERATED {sym1, sym2, sym4, sym7, sym14, sym28, sym42, sym56, sym70,
                                                          sym84, sym98, sym112, sym224, sym336}                           OPTIONAL,
                scs-30kHz-r18                 ENUMERATED {sym1, sym2, sym4, sym7, sym14, sym28, sym42, sym56, sym70,
                                                          sym84, sym98, sym112, sym224, sym336}                           OPTIONAL,
                scs-60kHz-r18                 ENUMERATED {sym1, sym2, sym4, sym7, sym14, sym28, sym42, sym56, sym70,
                                                          sym84, sym98, sym112, sym224, sym336}                           OPTIONAL
            },
            fr2-r18                          SEQUENCE {
                scs-60kHz-r18                 ENUMERATED {sym1, sym2, sym4, sym7, sym14, sym28, sym42, sym56, sym70,
                                                          sym84, sym98, sym112, sym224, sym336}                           OPTIONAL,
                scs-120kHz-r18                ENUMERATED {sym1, sym2, sym4, sym7, sym14, sym28, sym42, sym56, sym70,
                                                          sym84, sym98, sym112, sym224, sym336}                           OPTIONAL
            }
        },
        maxActivatedDL-TCI-PerCC-r18         INTEGER (2..8)                                                               OPTIONAL,
        maxActivatedUL-TCI-PerCC-r18         INTEGER (2..8)                                                               OPTIONAL
    }                                                                                                                     OPTIONAL,
    -- R1 50-1: Multi-PUSCHs for Configured Grant
    multiPUSCH-CG-r18                                               ENUMERATED {n16, n32}                                      OPTIONAL,
    -- R1 50-1a: Multiple active multi-PUSCHs configured grant configurations for a BWP of a serving cell
    multiPUSCH-ActiveConfiguredGrant-r18                            SEQUENCE {
        maxNumberConfigsPerBWP                                          ENUMERATED {n1, n2, n4, n8, n12},
        maxNumberConfigsAllCC-FR1                                       INTEGER (2..32),
        maxNumberConfigsAllCC-FR2                                       INTEGER (2..32)
    }                                                                                                                          OPTIONAL,
    -- R1 50-1b: Joint release in a DCI for two or more configured grant Type 2 configurations, including multi-PUSCH CG
    -- configuration(s), for a given BWP of a serving cell
    jointReleaseDCI-r18                                             ENUMERATED {supported}                                     OPTIONAL,
    -- R1 50-2: UCI indication of unused CG-PUSCH transmission occasions
    cg-PUSCH-UTO-UCI-Ind-r18                                        ENUMERATED {supported}                                     OPTIONAL,
    -- R1 50-3: PDCCH monitoring resumption after UL NACK
    pdcch-MonitoringResumptionAfterUL-NACK-r18                      ENUMERATED {supported}                                     OPTIONAL,

    -- R1 51-1: Support for 3 MHz symmetric channel bandwidth in DL and UL
    support3MHz-ChannelBW-Symmetric-r18                             ENUMERATED {supported}                                     OPTIONAL,
    -- R1 51-1a: Support for 3 MHz channel bandwidth in uplink with larger than 3 MHz channel BW in DL
    support3MHz-ChannelBW-Asymmetric-r18                            ENUMERATED {supported}                                     OPTIONAL,
    -- R1 51-2a: support 12 PRB CORESET0
    support12PRB-CORESET0-r18                                       ENUMERATED {supported}                                     OPTIONAL,

    -- R1 52-1: Reception of NR PDCCH candidates overlapping with LTE CRS REs
    nr-PDCCH-OverlapLTE-CRS-RE-r18                                  SEQUENCE {
        overlapInRE-r18                                                 ENUMERATED {oneSymbolNoOverlap, someOrAllSymOverlap},
        overlapInSymbol-r18                                             ENUMERATED {symbol2,symbol1And2}
    }                                                                                                                          OPTIONAL,
    -- R1 52-1a: Reception of NR PDCCH candidates overlapping with LTE CRS REs with multiple non-overlapping CRS rate matching patterns
    nr-PDCCH-OverlapLTE-CRS-RE-MultiPatterns-r18                    ENUMERATED {supported}                                     OPTIONAL,
    -- R1 52-1b: NR PDCCH reception that overlaps with LTE CRS within a single span of 3 consecutive OFDM symbols that is within the
    -- first 4 OFDM symbols in a slot
    nr-PDCCH-OverlapLTE-CRS-RE-Span-3-4-r18                         ENUMERATED {supported}                                     OPTIONAL,
    -- R1 52-2: Two LTE-CRS overlapping rate matching patterns within NR 15 kHz carrier overlapping with LTE carrier (regardless of
    -- support or configuration of multi-TRP)
    twoRateMatchingEUTRA-CRS-patterns-3-4-r18                       SEQUENCE {
        maxNumberPatterns-r18                                           INTEGER (2..6),
        maxNumberNon-OverlapPatterns-r18                                INTEGER (1..3)
    }                                                                                                                          OPTIONAL,
    -- R1 52-2a: Two LTE-CRS overlapping rate matching patterns with two different values of coresetPoolIndex within NR 15 kHz carrier
    -- overlapping with LTE carrier
    overlapRateMatchingEUTRA-CRS-Patterns-3-4-Diff-CS-Pool-r18      ENUMERATED {supported}                                     OPTIONAL,


    -- R1 53-3: Support RLM/BM/BFD measurements based on NCD-SSB within active BWP
    ncd-SSB-BWP-Wor-r18                                             ENUMERATED {supported}                                     OPTIONAL,
    -- R1 53-4: Support Support RLM/BM/BFD measurements based on CSI-RS when CD-SSB is outside active BWP
    rlm-BM-BFD-CSI-RS-OutsideActiveBWP-r18                          ENUMERATED {supported}                                     OPTIONAL,
    -- R1 54-1: PRACH coverage enhancements
    prach-CoverageEnh-r18                                           ENUMERATED {supported}                                     OPTIONAL,
    -- R1 54-1a: PRACH repetitions with less than N symbols gap
    prach-Repetition-r18                                            ENUMERATED {supported}                                     OPTIONAL,
    -- R1 54-3: Dynamic waveform switching
    dynamicWaveformSwitch-r18                                       ENUMERATED {supported}                                     OPTIONAL,
    -- R1 54-3a: PHR enhancement for dynamic waveform switching
    dynamicWaveformSwitchPHR-r18                                    ENUMERATED {supported}                                     OPTIONAL,
    -- R1 54-3b: Dynamic waveform switching for intra-band UL CA
    dynamicWaveformSwitchIntraCA-r18                                INTEGER (2..8)                                             OPTIONAL,

    -- R1 55-3: Multiple PUSCHs scheduling by single DCI for non-consecutive slots in FR1
    multiPUSCH-SingleDCI-NonConsSlots-r18                           ENUMERATED {supported}                                     OPTIONAL,
    -- R1 55-2d: single-symbol DL-PRS used in RTT-based Propagation delay compensation
    pdc-maxNumberPRS-ResourceProcessedPerSlot-r18                   SEQUENCE {
        fr1-r18 SEQUENCE {
            scs-15kHz-r18                                   ENUMERATED {n1, n2, n4, n6, n8, n12, n16, n24, n32, n48, n64}      OPTIONAL,
            scs-30kHz-r18                                   ENUMERATED {n1, n2, n4, n6, n8, n12, n16, n24, n32, n48, n64}      OPTIONAL,
            scs-60kHz-r18                                   ENUMERATED {n1, n2, n4, n6, n8, n12, n16, n24, n32, n48, n64}      OPTIONAL
        },
        fr2-r18 SEQUENCE {
            scs-60kHz-r18                                   ENUMERATED {n1, n2, n4, n6, n8, n12, n16, n24, n32, n48, n64}      OPTIONAL,
            scs-120kHz-r18                                  ENUMERATED {n1, n2, n4, n6, n8, n12, n16, n24, n32, n48, n64}      OPTIONAL
        }
    }                                                                                                                          OPTIONAL,
    -- R1 57-2: Intra-slot TDM-ed unicast PDSCH and group-common PDSCH for multicast in RRC_INACTIVE state
    intraSlot-PDSCH-MulticastInactive-r18                   BOOLEAN                                                            OPTIONAL,
    -- R1 57-1: Dynamic scheduling for multicast in RRC_INACTIVE state
    multicastInactive-r18                                   ENUMERATED {supported}                                             OPTIONAL,
    thresholdBasedMulticastResume-r18                       ENUMERATED {supported}                                             OPTIONAL,

    -- R4 27-2: LowerMSD for inter-band NR CA and EN-DC
    lowerMSD-r18                                                    SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxLowerMSD-r18)) OF LowerMSD-r18       OPTIONAL,
    lowerMSD-ENDC-r18                                               SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxLowerMSD-r18)) OF LowerMSD-r18       OPTIONAL,
    -- R4 28-1: Enhanced channel raster
    enhancedChannelRaster-r18                                       ENUMERATED {supported}                                     OPTIONAL,
    -- R4 30-2: Fast beam sweeping for layer-1 measurement when the UE is in multi-Rx operation
    fastBeamSweepingMultiRx-r18                                     ENUMERATED {n2,n4,n6}                                      OPTIONAL,

    -- R4 31-2 Beam sweeping factor reduction for FR2 unknown SCell activation
    beamSweepingFactorReduction-r18                                 SEQUENCE {
        reduceForCellDetection                                          ENUMERATED {n1, n2, n4, n6},
        reduceForSSB-L1-RSRP-Meas                                       INTEGER (0..7)
    }                                                                                                                          OPTIONAL,
    -- R4 34-1: Support of NR FR2 HST with simultaneous DL reception with two different QCL TypeD RSs
    simultaneousReceptionTwoQCL-r18                                 ENUMERATED {supported}                                      OPTIONAL,
    -- R4 34-2: Enhanced FR2 HST RRM requirements for intra-band CA and inter-frequency measurements in connected mode
    measEnhCAInterFreqFR2-r18                                       ENUMERATED {supported}                                     OPTIONAL,
    -- R4 34-4: Support of enhanced MAC CE for TCI state switch indication for FR2 HST
    tci-StateSwitchInd-r18                                          ENUMERATED {supported}                                     OPTIONAL,
    -- R4 35-2: the requirements defined for ATG UE with antenna array or omni-direction antenna requirements.
    antennaArrayType-r18                                            ENUMERATED {supported}                                     OPTIONAL,
    locationBasedCondHandoverATG-r18                                ENUMERATED {supported}                                     OPTIONAL,
    -- R4 35-3: rated maximum output power value range from 23dBm to 40dBm with 1dB as granularity at maximum modulation order and full
    -- PRB configurations.
    maxOutputPowerATG-r18                                           INTEGER (1..18)                                            OPTIONAL,
    -- R4 39-6: Fast processing of LTM candidate cell RRC configuration
    ltm-FastProcessingConfig-r18                                    SEQUENCE {
        maxNumberStoredConfigCells-r18                                  ENUMERATED {n2,n3,n4,n5,n6,n7,n8,n9,n10,n11,n12,n16},
        maxNumberConfigs-r18                                            INTEGER (1..4)
    }                                                                                                                          OPTIONAL,
    -- R4 39-8: Measurement validation based on EMR measurement during connection setup/resume
    measValidationReportEMR-r18                                     ENUMERATED {supported}                                     OPTIONAL,
    -- R4 39-9: Measurement validation based on reselection measurement during connection setup/resume
    measValidationReportReselectionMeasurements-r18                 ENUMERATED {supported}                                     OPTIONAL,

    eventA4BasedCondHandoverNES-r18                                 ENUMERATED {supported}                                     OPTIONAL,
    nesBasedCondHandoverWithDCI-r18                                 ENUMERATED {supported}                                     OPTIONAL,
    rach-LessHandoverCG-r18                                         ENUMERATED {supported}                                     OPTIONAL,
    rach-LessHandoverDG-r18                                         ENUMERATED {supported}                                     OPTIONAL,
    locationBasedCondHandoverEMC-r18                                ENUMERATED {supported}                                     OPTIONAL,
    mt-CG-SDT-r18                                                   ENUMERATED {supported}                                     OPTIONAL,
    posSRS-PreconfigureRRC-InactiveInitialUL-BWP-r18                ENUMERATED {supported}                                     OPTIONAL,
    posSRS-PreconfigureRRC-InactiveOutsideInitialUL-BWP-r18         ENUMERATED {supported}                                     OPTIONAL,
    cg-SDT-PeriodicityExt-r18                                       ENUMERATED {supported}                                     OPTIONAL,
    -- R2: 2Rx XR UEs
    supportOf2RxXR-r18                                              ENUMERATED {supported}                                     OPTIONAL,
    condHandoverWithCandSCG-change-r18                              ENUMERATED {supported}                                     OPTIONAL
    ]],
    [[
    mac-ParametersPerBand-r18                                       MAC-ParametersPerBand-r18                                  OPTIONAL,
    channelBW-DL-NCR-r18                                            CHOICE {
        fr1-100mhz                                                      SEQUENCE {
            scs-15kHz                                                       ENUMERATED {supported}                             OPTIONAL,
            scs-30kHz                                                       ENUMERATED {supported}                             OPTIONAL,
            scs-60kHz                                                       ENUMERATED {supported}                             OPTIONAL
        },
        fr2-200mhz                                                      SEQUENCE {
            scs-60kHz                                                       ENUMERATED {supported}                             OPTIONAL,
            scs-120kHz                                                      ENUMERATED {supported}                             OPTIONAL
        }
    }                                                                                                                          OPTIONAL,
    channelBW-UL-NCR-r18                                            CHOICE {
        fr1-100mhz                                                      SEQUENCE {
            scs-15kHz                                                       ENUMERATED {supported}                             OPTIONAL,
            scs-30kHz                                                       ENUMERATED {supported}                             OPTIONAL,
            scs-60kHz                                                       ENUMERATED {supported}                             OPTIONAL
        },
        fr2-200mhz                                                      SEQUENCE {
            scs-60kHz                                                       ENUMERATED {supported}                             OPTIONAL,
            scs-120kHz                                                      ENUMERATED {supported}                             OPTIONAL
        }
    }                                                                                                                          OPTIONAL,
    ncr-PDSCH-64QAM-FR2-r18                                         ENUMERATED {supported}                                     OPTIONAL,
    ltm-MCG-IntraFreq-r18                                           ENUMERATED {supported}                                     OPTIONAL,
    ltm-SCG-IntraFreq-r18                                           ENUMERATED {supported}                                     OPTIONAL
    ]],
    [[
    -- R1 45-3a: MAC-CE activated joint LTM TCI states
    ltm-MAC-CE-JointTCI-r18                                         SEQUENCE {
        qcl-Resource-r18                                                ENUMERATED {ssb, trs, both},
        maxNumberJointTCI-PerCell-r18                                   INTEGER (1..16),
        maxNumberJointTCI-AcrossCells-r18                               INTEGER (1..32)
    }                                                                                                                          OPTIONAL,
    -- R1 45-4a: MAC-CE activated DL/UL LTM TCI states
    ltm-MAC-CE-SeparateTCI-r18                                      SEQUENCE {
        qcl-Resource-r18                                                ENUMERATED {ssb, trs, both},
        maxNumberDL-TCI-PerCell-r18                                     INTEGER (1..8),
        maxNumberUL-TCI-PerCell-r18                                     INTEGER (1..8),
        maxNumberDL-TCI-AcrossCells-r18                                 INTEGER (1..32),
        maxNumberUL-TCI-AcrossCells-r18                                 INTEGER (1..32)
    }                                                                                                                          OPTIONAL
    ]]
}

BandNR-v16c0 ::=                                                SEQUENCE {
    pusch-RepetitionTypeA-v16c0                                     ENUMERATED {supported}                                     OPTIONAL,
    ...
}

BandNR-v17b0 ::=                                                SEQUENCE {
    mimo-ParametersPerBand-v17b0                                    MIMO-ParametersPerBand-v17b0                               OPTIONAL,
    ...
}

LowerMSD-r18 ::=           SEQUENCE {
    aggressorband1-r18         CHOICE {
         nr                        FreqBandIndicatorNR,
         eutra                     FreqBandIndicatorEUTRA
    },
    aggressorband2-r18         FreqBandIndicatorNR                                                                             OPTIONAL,
    msd-Information-r18        SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxLowerMSDInfo-r18)) OF MSD-Information-r18
}

MSD-Information-r18 ::=    SEQUENCE {
    msd-Type-r18               ENUMERATED {harmonic, harmonicMixing, crossBandIsolation, imd2, imd3, imd4, imd5, all, spare8, spare7,
                                         spare6, spare5,spare4, spare3, spare2, spare1},
    msd-PowerClass-r18         ENUMERATED {pc1dot5, pc2, pc3},
    msd-Class-r18              ENUMERATED {classI, classII, classIII, classIV, classV, classVI, classVII, classVIII }
}

-- TAG-RF-PARAMETERS-STOP
-- ASN1STOP



–	RF-ParametersMRDC
The IE RF-ParametersMRDC is used to convey RF related capabilities for MR-DC.
RF-ParametersMRDC information element
-- ASN1START
-- TAG-RF-PARAMETERSMRDC-START

RF-ParametersMRDC ::=                   SEQUENCE {
    supportedBandCombinationList            BandCombinationList                             OPTIONAL,
    appliedFreqBandListFilter               FreqBandList                                    OPTIONAL,
    ...,
    [[
    srs-SwitchingTimeRequested              ENUMERATED {true}                               OPTIONAL,
    supportedBandCombinationList-v1540      BandCombinationList-v1540                       OPTIONAL
    ]],
    [[
    supportedBandCombinationList-v1550      BandCombinationList-v1550                       OPTIONAL
    ]],
    [[
    supportedBandCombinationList-v1560      BandCombinationList-v1560                       OPTIONAL,
    supportedBandCombinationListNEDC-Only   BandCombinationList                             OPTIONAL
    ]],
    [[
    supportedBandCombinationList-v1570      BandCombinationList-v1570                       OPTIONAL
    ]],
    [[
    supportedBandCombinationList-v1580      BandCombinationList-v1580                       OPTIONAL
    ]],
    [[
    supportedBandCombinationList-v1590      BandCombinationList-v1590                       OPTIONAL
    ]],
    [[
    supportedBandCombinationListNEDC-Only-v15a0    SEQUENCE {
        supportedBandCombinationList-v1540      BandCombinationList-v1540                   OPTIONAL,
        supportedBandCombinationList-v1560      BandCombinationList-v1560                   OPTIONAL,
        supportedBandCombinationList-v1570      BandCombinationList-v1570                   OPTIONAL,
        supportedBandCombinationList-v1580      BandCombinationList-v1580                   OPTIONAL,
        supportedBandCombinationList-v1590      BandCombinationList-v1590                   OPTIONAL
    }                                                                                       OPTIONAL
    ]],
    [[
    supportedBandCombinationList-v1610      BandCombinationList-v1610                       OPTIONAL,
    supportedBandCombinationListNEDC-Only-v1610   BandCombinationList-v1610                 OPTIONAL,
    supportedBandCombinationList-UplinkTxSwitch-r16 BandCombinationList-UplinkTxSwitch-r16  OPTIONAL
    ]],
    [[
    supportedBandCombinationList-v1630                  BandCombinationList-v1630                   OPTIONAL,
    supportedBandCombinationListNEDC-Only-v1630         BandCombinationList-v1630                   OPTIONAL,
    supportedBandCombinationList-UplinkTxSwitch-v1630   BandCombinationList-UplinkTxSwitch-v1630    OPTIONAL
    ]],
    [[
    supportedBandCombinationList-v1640                  BandCombinationList-v1640                   OPTIONAL,
    supportedBandCombinationListNEDC-Only-v1640         BandCombinationList-v1640                   OPTIONAL,
    supportedBandCombinationList-UplinkTxSwitch-v1640   BandCombinationList-UplinkTxSwitch-v1640    OPTIONAL
    ]],
    [[
    supportedBandCombinationList-UplinkTxSwitch-v1670   BandCombinationList-UplinkTxSwitch-v1670    OPTIONAL
    ]],
    [[
    supportedBandCombinationList-v1700                  BandCombinationList-v1700                   OPTIONAL,
    supportedBandCombinationList-UplinkTxSwitch-v1700   BandCombinationList-UplinkTxSwitch-v1700    OPTIONAL
    ]],
    [[
    supportedBandCombinationList-v1720                  BandCombinationList-v1720                   OPTIONAL,
    supportedBandCombinationListNEDC-Only-v1720         SEQUENCE {
        supportedBandCombinationList-v1700                  BandCombinationList-v1700               OPTIONAL,
        supportedBandCombinationList-v1720                  BandCombinationList-v1720               OPTIONAL
    }                                                                                               OPTIONAL,
    supportedBandCombinationList-UplinkTxSwitch-v1720   BandCombinationList-UplinkTxSwitch-v1720    OPTIONAL
    ]],
    [[
    supportedBandCombinationList-v1730                  BandCombinationList-v1730                   OPTIONAL,
    supportedBandCombinationListNEDC-Only-v1730         BandCombinationList-v1730                   OPTIONAL,
    supportedBandCombinationList-UplinkTxSwitch-v1730   BandCombinationList-UplinkTxSwitch-v1730    OPTIONAL
    ]],
    [[
    supportedBandCombinationList-v1740                  BandCombinationList-v1740                   OPTIONAL,
    supportedBandCombinationListNEDC-Only-v1740         BandCombinationList-v1740                   OPTIONAL,
    supportedBandCombinationList-UplinkTxSwitch-v1740   BandCombinationList-UplinkTxSwitch-v1740    OPTIONAL
    ]],
    [[
    dummy1                                              BandCombinationList-v1770                   OPTIONAL,
    dummy2                                              BandCombinationList-UplinkTxSwitch-v1770    OPTIONAL
    ]],
    [[
    supportedBandCombinationList-v1780                  BandCombinationList-v1780                   OPTIONAL,
    supportedBandCombinationListNEDC-Only-v1780         BandCombinationList-v1780                   OPTIONAL,
    supportedBandCombinationList-UplinkTxSwitch-v1780   BandCombinationList-UplinkTxSwitch-v1780    OPTIONAL
    ]],
    [[
    supportedBandCombinationList-v1790                  BandCombinationList-v1790                   OPTIONAL,
    supportedBandCombinationList-UplinkTxSwitch-v1790   BandCombinationList-UplinkTxSwitch-v1790    OPTIONAL
    ]],
    [[
    supportedBandCombinationList-v1800                  BandCombinationList-v1800                   OPTIONAL,
    supportedBandCombinationList-UplinkTxSwitch-v1800   BandCombinationList-UplinkTxSwitch-v1800    OPTIONAL
    ]],
    [[
    supportedBandCombinationList-v1830                  BandCombinationList-v1830                   OPTIONAL,
    supportedBandCombinationList-UplinkTxSwitch-v1830   BandCombinationList-UplinkTxSwitch-v1830    OPTIONAL
    ]],
    [[
    supportedBandCombinationList-v1840                  BandCombinationList-v1840                   OPTIONAL,
    supportedBandCombinationList-UplinkTxSwitch-v1840   BandCombinationList-UplinkTxSwitch-v1840    OPTIONAL
    ]],
    [[
    supportedBandCombinationList-v1860                  BandCombinationList-v1860                   OPTIONAL,
    supportedBandCombinationList-UplinkTxSwitch-v1860   BandCombinationList-UplinkTxSwitch-v1860    OPTIONAL
    ]]
}

RF-ParametersMRDC-v15g0 ::=                    SEQUENCE {
    supportedBandCombinationList-v15g0             BandCombinationList-v15g0        OPTIONAL,
    supportedBandCombinationListNEDC-Only-v15g0    BandCombinationList-v15g0        OPTIONAL
}

RF-ParametersMRDC-v15n0 ::=                     SEQUENCE {
supportedBandCombinationList-v15n0                  BandCombinationList-v15n0                       OPTIONAL
}

RF-ParametersMRDC-v16e0 ::=                     SEQUENCE {
supportedBandCombinationList-UplinkTxSwitch-v16e0   BandCombinationList-UplinkTxSwitch-v16e0        OPTIONAL
}

-- TAG-RF-PARAMETERSMRDC-STOP
-- ASN1STOP



–	RLC-Parameters
The IE RLC-Parameters is used to convey capabilities related to RLC.
RLC-Parameters information element
-- ASN1START
-- TAG-RLC-PARAMETERS-START

RLC-Parameters ::= SEQUENCE {
    am-WithShortSN                  ENUMERATED {supported}  OPTIONAL,
    um-WithShortSN                  ENUMERATED {supported}  OPTIONAL,
    um-WithLongSN                   ENUMERATED {supported}  OPTIONAL,
    ...,
    [[
    extendedT-PollRetransmit-r16    ENUMERATED {supported}  OPTIONAL,
    extendedT-StatusProhibit-r16    ENUMERATED {supported}  OPTIONAL
    ]],
    [[
    am-WithLongSN-RedCap-r17        ENUMERATED {supported}  OPTIONAL
    ]],
    [[
    am-WithLongSN-NCR-r18           ENUMERATED {supported}  OPTIONAL
    ]]
}

-- TAG-RLC-PARAMETERS-STOP
-- ASN1STOP

–	SDAP-Parameters
The IE SDAP-Parameters is used to convey capabilities related to SDAP.
SDAP-Parameters information element
-- ASN1START
-- TAG-SDAP-PARAMETERS-START

SDAP-Parameters ::= SEQUENCE {
    as-ReflectiveQoS              ENUMERATED {true}            OPTIONAL,
    ...,
    [[
    sdap-QOS-IAB-r16              ENUMERATED {supported}       OPTIONAL,
    sdapHeaderIAB-r16             ENUMERATED {supported}       OPTIONAL
    ]],
    [[
    sdap-QOS-NCR-r18              ENUMERATED {supported}       OPTIONAL,
    sdap-HeaderNCR-r18            ENUMERATED {supported}       OPTIONAL
    ]]
}

-- TAG-SDAP-PARAMETERS-STOP
-- ASN1STOP

–	SharedSpectrumChAccessParamsPerBand
The IE SharedSpectrumChAccessParamsPerBand is used to convey shared channel access related parameters specific for a certain frequency band (not per feature set or band combination).
SharedSpectrumChAccessParamsPerBand information element
-- ASN1START
-- TAG-SHAREDSPECTRUMCHACCESSPARAMSPERBAND-START

SharedSpectrumChAccessParamsPerBand-r16 ::=           SEQUENCE {

    -- R1 10-1: UL channel access for dynamic channel access mode
    ul-DynamicChAccess-r16                              ENUMERATED {supported}            OPTIONAL,
    -- R1 10-1a: UL channel access for semi-static channel access mode
    ul-Semi-StaticChAccess-r16                          ENUMERATED {supported}            OPTIONAL,
    -- R1 10-2: SSB-based RRM for dynamic channel access mode
    ssb-RRM-DynamicChAccess-r16                         ENUMERATED {supported}            OPTIONAL,
    -- R1 10-2a: SSB-based RRM for semi-static channel access mode
    ssb-RRM-Semi-StaticChAccess-r16                     ENUMERATED {supported}            OPTIONAL,
    -- R1 10-2b: MIB reading on unlicensed cell
    mib-Acquisition-r16                                 ENUMERATED {supported}            OPTIONAL,
    -- R1 10-2c: SSB-based RLM for dynamic channel access mode
    ssb-RLM-DynamicChAccess-r16                         ENUMERATED {supported}            OPTIONAL,
    -- R1 10-2d: SSB-based RLM for semi-static channel access mode
    ssb-RLM-Semi-StaticChAccess-r16                     ENUMERATED {supported}            OPTIONAL,
    -- R1 10-2e: SIB1 reception on unlicensed cell
    sib1-Acquisition-r16                                ENUMERATED {supported}            OPTIONAL,
    -- R1 10-2f: Support monitoring of extended RAR window
    extRA-ResponseWindow-r16                            ENUMERATED {supported}            OPTIONAL,
    -- R1 10-2g: SSB-based BFD/CBD for dynamic channel access mode
    ssb-BFD-CBD-dynamicChannelAccess-r16                ENUMERATED {supported}            OPTIONAL,
    -- R1 10-2h: SSB-based BFD/CBD for semi-static channel access mode
    ssb-BFD-CBD-semi-staticChannelAccess-r16            ENUMERATED {supported}            OPTIONAL,
    -- R1 10-2i: CSI-RS-based BFD/CBD for NR-U
    csi-RS-BFD-CBD-r16                                  ENUMERATED {supported}            OPTIONAL,
    -- R1 10-7: UL channel access for 10 MHz SCell
    ul-ChannelBW-SCell-10mhz-r16                        ENUMERATED {supported}            OPTIONAL,
    -- R1 10-10: RSSI and channel occupancy measurement and reporting
    rssi-ChannelOccupancyReporting-r16                  ENUMERATED {supported}            OPTIONAL,
    -- R1 10-11:SRS starting position at any OFDM symbol in a slot
    srs-StartAnyOFDM-Symbol-r16                         ENUMERATED {supported}            OPTIONAL,
    -- R1 10-20: Support search space set configuration with freqMonitorLocation-r16
    searchSpaceFreqMonitorLocation-r16                  INTEGER (1..5)                    OPTIONAL,
    -- R1 10-20a: Support coreset configuration with rb-Offset
    coreset-RB-Offset-r16                               ENUMERATED {supported}            OPTIONAL,
    -- R1 10-23:CGI reading on unlicensed cell for ANR functionality
    cgi-Acquisition-r16                                 ENUMERATED {supported}            OPTIONAL,
    -- R1 10-25: Enable configured UL transmissions when DCI 2_0 is configured but not detected
    configuredUL-Tx-r16                                  ENUMERATED {supported}            OPTIONAL,
    -- R1 10-27: Wideband PRACH
    prach-Wideband-r16                                  ENUMERATED {supported}            OPTIONAL,
    -- R1 10-29: Support available RB set indicator field in DCI 2_0
    dci-AvailableRB-Set-r16                             ENUMERATED {supported}            OPTIONAL,
    -- R1 10-30: Support channel occupancy duration indicator field in DCI 2_0
    dci-ChOccupancyDuration-r16                         ENUMERATED {supported}            OPTIONAL,
    -- R1 10-8: Type B PDSCH length {3, 5, 6, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12, 13} without DMRS shift due to CRS collision
    typeB-PDSCH-length-r16                              ENUMERATED {supported}            OPTIONAL,
    -- R1 10-9: Search space set group switching with explicit DCI 2_0 bit field trigger or with implicit PDCCH decoding with DCI 2_0 monitoring
    searchSpaceSwitchWithDCI-r16                        ENUMERATED {supported}            OPTIONAL,
    -- R1 10-9b: Search space set group switching with implicit PDCCH decoding without DCI 2_0 monitoring
    searchSpaceSwitchWithoutDCI-r16                     ENUMERATED {supported}            OPTIONAL,
    -- R1 10-9d: Support Search space set group switching capability 2
    searchSpaceSwitchCapability2-r16                    ENUMERATED {supported}            OPTIONAL,
    -- R1 10-14: Non-numerical PDSCH to HARQ-ACK timing
    non-numericalPDSCH-HARQ-timing-r16                  ENUMERATED {supported}            OPTIONAL,
    -- R1 10-15: Enhanced dynamic HARQ codebook
    enhancedDynamicHARQ-codebook-r16                    ENUMERATED {supported}            OPTIONAL,
    -- R1 10-16: One-shot HARQ ACK feedback
    oneShotHARQ-feedback-r16                            ENUMERATED {supported}            OPTIONAL,
    -- R1 10-17: Multi-PUSCH UL grant
    multiPUSCH-UL-grant-r16                             ENUMERATED {supported}            OPTIONAL,
    -- R1 10-26: CSI-RS based RLM for NR-U
    csi-RS-RLM-r16                                      ENUMERATED {supported}            OPTIONAL,
    dummy                                              ENUMERATED {supported}            OPTIONAL,
    -- R1 10-31: Support of P/SP-CSI-RS reception with CSI-RS-ValidationWith-DCI-r16 configured
    periodicAndSemi-PersistentCSI-RS-r16                ENUMERATED {supported}            OPTIONAL,
    -- R1 10-3: PRB interlace mapping for PUSCH
    pusch-PRB-interlace-r16                             ENUMERATED {supported}            OPTIONAL,
    -- R1 10-3a: PRB interlace mapping for PUCCH
    pucch-F0-F1-PRB-Interlace-r16                       ENUMERATED {supported}            OPTIONAL,
    -- R1 10-12: OCC for PRB interlace mapping for PF2 and PF3
    occ-PRB-PF2-PF3-r16                                 ENUMERATED {supported}            OPTIONAL,
    -- R1 10-13a: Extended CP range of more than one symbol for CG-PUSCH
    extCP-rangeCG-PUSCH-r16                             ENUMERATED {supported}            OPTIONAL,
    -- R1 10-18: Configured grant with retransmission in CG resources
    configuredGrantWithReTx-r16                         ENUMERATED {supported}            OPTIONAL,
    -- R1 10-21a: Support using ED threshold given by gNB for UL to DL COT sharing
    ed-Threshold-r16                                    ENUMERATED {supported}            OPTIONAL,
    -- R1 10-21b: Support UL to DL COT sharing
    ul-DL-COT-Sharing-r16                               ENUMERATED {supported}            OPTIONAL,
    -- R1 10-24: CG-UCI multiplexing with HARQ ACK
    mux-CG-UCI-HARQ-ACK-r16                             ENUMERATED {supported}            OPTIONAL,
    -- R1 10-28: Configured grant with Rel-16 enhanced resource configuration
    cg-resourceConfig-r16                               ENUMERATED {supported}            OPTIONAL
}

SharedSpectrumChAccessParamsPerBand-v1630 ::=       SEQUENCE {
    -- R4 4-1: DL reception in intra-carrier guardband
    dl-ReceptionIntraCellGuardband-r16                  ENUMERATED {supported}            OPTIONAL,
    -- R4 4-2: DL reception when gNB does not transmit on all RB sets of a carrier as a result of LBT
    dl-ReceptionLBT-subsetRB-r16                        ENUMERATED {supported}            OPTIONAL
}

SharedSpectrumChAccessParamsPerBand-v1640 ::=       SEQUENCE {
    -- 10-26b(1-4): CSI-RS based RRM measurement with associated SS-block
    csi-RSRP-AndRSRQ-MeasWithSSB-r16                     ENUMERATED {supported}              OPTIONAL,
    -- 10-26c(1-5): CSI-RS based RRM measurement without associated SS-block
    csi-RSRP-AndRSRQ-MeasWithoutSSB-r16                 ENUMERATED {supported}               OPTIONAL,
    -- 10-26d(1-6): CSI-RS based RS-SINR measurement
    csi-SINR-Meas-r16                                      ENUMERATED {supported}               OPTIONAL,
    -- 10-26e(1-8): RLM based on a mix of SS block and CSI-RS signals within active BWP
    ssb-AndCSI-RS-RLM-r16                                 ENUMERATED {supported}               OPTIONAL,
    -- 10-26f(1-9): CSI-RS based contention free RA for HO
    csi-RS-CFRA-ForHO-r16                                 ENUMERATED {supported}               OPTIONAL
}

SharedSpectrumChAccessParamsPerBand-v1650 ::=       SEQUENCE {
    -- Extension of R1 10-9 capability to configure up to 16 instead of 4 cells or cell groups, respectively
    extendedSearchSpaceSwitchWithDCI-r16                ENUMERATED {supported}               OPTIONAL
}

SharedSpectrumChAccessParamsPerBand-v1710 ::=    SEQUENCE {
    -- R1 25-12: UE initiated semi-static channel occupancy with dependent configurations
    ul-Semi-StaticChAccessDependentConfig-r17        ENUMERATED {supported}            OPTIONAL,
    -- R1 25-13: UE initiated semi-static channel occupancy with independent configurations
    ul-Semi-StaticChAccessIndependentConfig-r17      ENUMERATED {supported}            OPTIONAL
}

-- TAG-SHAREDSPECTRUMCHACCESSPARAMSPERBAND-STOP
-- ASN1STOP

–	SharedSpectrumChAccessParamsSidelinkPerBand
The IE SharedSpectrumChAccessParamsSidelinkPerBand is used to convey shared channel access related parameters related to NR sidelink communication, specific for a certain frequency band (not per feature set or band combination).
SharedSpectrumChAccessParamsSidelinkPerBand information element
-- ASN1START
-- TAG-SHAREDSPECTRUMCHACCESSPARAMSSIDELINKPERBAND-START

SharedSpectrumChAccessParamsSidelinkPerBand-r18 ::= SEQUENCE {
     -- R1 47-k1: SL channel access for dynamic channel access mode
    sl-DynamicChannelAccess-r18                         ENUMERATED {supported}            OPTIONAL,
    -- R1 47-k2: SL multi-channel access for dynamic channel access mode
    sl-DynamicMultiChannelAccess-r18                    INTEGER (2..5)                    OPTIONAL,
     -- R1 47-k6: Type1 LBT blocking Option 1
    sl-LBT-Option1-r18                                  ENUMERATED {supported}            OPTIONAL,
     -- R1 47-k7: Type1 LBT blocking Option 2
    sl-LBT-Option2-r18                                  ENUMERATED {supported}            OPTIONAL,
    -- R1 47-k9: Sidelink mode 1 resource allocation in shared spectrum
    sl-ResourceAllocMode1-r18                           ENUMERATED {supported}            OPTIONAL,
     -- R1 47-m1: Interlace RB-based SL transmission/reception
    sl-Interlace-RB-TxRx-r18                            ENUMERATED {supported}            OPTIONAL,
     -- R1 47-m5: Multiple PSFCH occasions per PSCCH/PSSCH
    sl-PSFCH-MultiOccasion-r18                          INTEGER (1..4)                    OPTIONAL,
    -- R1 47-m10: Contiguous RB-based PSCCH/PSSCH transmission/reception
    sl-ContiguousRB-TxRx-r18                            ENUMERATED {supported}            OPTIONAL,
    -- R1 47-m11: PSFCH transmissions in multiple contiguous RB sets
    sl-PSFCH-MultiContiguousRB-r18                      ENUMERATED {supported}            OPTIONAL,
    -- R1 47-m11a: PSFCH transmissions in multiple non-contiguous RB sets
    sl-PSFCH-MultiNonContiguousRB-r18                   ENUMERATED {supported}            OPTIONAL,
    -- R1 47-m13: Transmissions/receptions of multiple dedicated PRBs in common interlace-based PSFCH
    sl-MultiplePRB-CommonInterlacePSFCH-r18             SEQUENCE {
        tx-TotalPRB-PSFCH-r18                               ENUMERATED {n4, n5, n8, n15, n16, n20},
        rx-TotalPRB-PSFCH-r18                               ENUMERATED {n5, n6, n15, n16, n25, n26, n32, n35, n45, n46, n50, n64, n65}
    }                                                                                     OPTIONAL,
    -- R1 47-m13a: Transmissions/receptions of multiple interlaces in dedicated interlace-based PSFCH
    sl-MultiplePRB-DedicatedInterlacePSFCH-r18          SEQUENCE {
        tx-TotalPRB-PSFCH-r18                               INTEGER (1..3),
        rx-TotalPRB-PSFCH-r18                               INTEGER (1..5)
    }                                                                                     OPTIONAL
}

-- TAG-SHAREDSPECTRUMCHACCESSPARAMSSIDELINKPERBAND-STOP
-- ASN1STOP


–	SidelinkParameters
The IE SidelinkParameters is used to convey capabilities related to NR and V2X sidelink communications/positioning.
SidelinkParameters information element
-- ASN1START
-- TAG-SIDELINKPARAMETERS-START

SidelinkParameters-r16 ::=    SEQUENCE {
    sidelinkParametersNR-r16                  SidelinkParametersNR-r16                                                  OPTIONAL,
    sidelinkParametersEUTRA-r16               SidelinkParametersEUTRA-r16                                               OPTIONAL
}

SidelinkParametersNR-r16 ::= SEQUENCE {
    rlc-ParametersSidelink-r16                RLC-ParametersSidelink-r16                                                OPTIONAL,
    mac-ParametersSidelink-r16                MAC-ParametersSidelink-r16                                                OPTIONAL,
    fdd-Add-UE-Sidelink-Capabilities-r16      UE-SidelinkCapabilityAddXDD-Mode-r16                                      OPTIONAL,
    tdd-Add-UE-Sidelink-Capabilities-r16      UE-SidelinkCapabilityAddXDD-Mode-r16                                      OPTIONAL,
    supportedBandListSidelink-r16             SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxBands)) OF BandSidelink-r16                         OPTIONAL,
    ...,
    [[
    relayParameters-r17                       RelayParameters-r17                                                       OPTIONAL
    ]],
    [[
    -- R1 32-x: Use of new P0 parameters for open loop power control
    p0-OLPC-Sidelink-r17                      ENUMERATED {supported}                                                    OPTIONAL
    ]],
    [[
    pdcp-ParametersSidelink-r18               PDCP-ParametersSidelink-r18                                               OPTIONAL,
    --R1 41-1-1a: Common SL-PRS processing capability
    sl-PRS-CommonProcCapabilityPerUE-r18      SEQUENCE {
        maxNumOfActiveSL-PRS-Resources-r18        SEQUENCE {
            fr1-r18                                   ENUMERATED {n1, n2, n4, n6, n8, n12, n16, n24}                    OPTIONAL,
            fr2-r18                                   ENUMERATED {n1, n2, n4, n6, n8, n12, n16, n24, n32, n48, n64, n128} OPTIONAL
        },
        maxNumOfSlotswithActiveSL-PRS-Resources-r18 SEQUENCE {
            fr1-r18                                   ENUMERATED {n1, n2, n3, n4, n6, n8}                               OPTIONAL,
            fr2-r18                                   ENUMERATED {n1, n2, n4, n8, n12, n16, n24, n32, n48, n64}         OPTIONAL
        }
    }                                                                                                                   OPTIONAL
    ]]
}

SidelinkParametersEUTRA-r16 ::= SEQUENCE {
    sl-ParametersEUTRA1-r16                   OCTET STRING                                                              OPTIONAL,
    sl-ParametersEUTRA2-r16                   OCTET STRING                                                              OPTIONAL,
    sl-ParametersEUTRA3-r16                   OCTET STRING                                                              OPTIONAL,
    supportedBandListSidelinkEUTRA-r16        SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxBandsEUTRA)) OF BandSidelinkEUTRA-r16               OPTIONAL,
    ...
}

RLC-ParametersSidelink-r16 ::= SEQUENCE {
    am-WithLongSN-Sidelink-r16                ENUMERATED {supported}                                                    OPTIONAL,
    um-WithLongSN-Sidelink-r16                ENUMERATED {supported}                                                    OPTIONAL,
    ...
}

MAC-ParametersSidelink-r16 ::= SEQUENCE {
    mac-ParametersSidelinkCommon-r16          MAC-ParametersSidelinkCommon-r16                                          OPTIONAL,
    mac-ParametersSidelinkXDD-Diff-r16        MAC-ParametersSidelinkXDD-Diff-r16                                        OPTIONAL,
    ...
}

UE-SidelinkCapabilityAddXDD-Mode-r16 ::=  SEQUENCE {
    mac-ParametersSidelinkXDD-Diff-r16        MAC-ParametersSidelinkXDD-Diff-r16                                        OPTIONAL
}

MAC-ParametersSidelinkCommon-r16 ::= SEQUENCE {
    lcp-RestrictionSidelink-r16               ENUMERATED {supported}                                                    OPTIONAL,
    multipleConfiguredGrantsSidelink-r16      ENUMERATED {supported}                                                    OPTIONAL,
    ...,
    [[
    drx-OnSidelink-r17                        ENUMERATED {supported}                                                    OPTIONAL
    ]],
    [[
    sl-LBT-FailureDectectionRecovery-r18      ENUMERATED {supported}                                                    OPTIONAL
    ]]
}

MAC-ParametersSidelinkXDD-Diff-r16 ::=  SEQUENCE {
    multipleSR-ConfigurationsSidelink-r16     ENUMERATED {supported}                                                    OPTIONAL,
    logicalChannelSR-DelayTimerSidelink-r16   ENUMERATED {supported}                                                    OPTIONAL,
    ...
}

BandSidelinkEUTRA-r16 ::=               SEQUENCE {
    freqBandSidelinkEUTRA-r16               FreqBandIndicatorEUTRA,
    -- R1 15-7: Transmitting LTE sidelink mode 3 scheduled by NR Uu
    gnb-ScheduledMode3SidelinkEUTRA-r16     SEQUENCE {
        gnb-ScheduledMode3DelaySidelinkEUTRA-r16 ENUMERATED {ms0, ms0dot25, ms0dot5, ms0dot625, ms0dot75, ms1,
                                                             ms1dot25, ms1dot5, ms1dot75, ms2, ms2dot5, ms3, ms4,
                                                             ms5, ms6, ms8, ms10, ms20}
    }                                                                                                                   OPTIONAL,
    -- R1 15-9: Transmitting LTE sidelink mode 4 configured by NR Uu
    gnb-ScheduledMode4SidelinkEUTRA-r16     ENUMERATED {supported}                                                      OPTIONAL
}

BandSidelink-r16 ::=  SEQUENCE {
    freqBandSidelink-r16                          FreqBandIndicatorNR,
    --15-1
    sl-Reception-r16                              SEQUENCE {
        harq-RxProcessSidelink-r16                    ENUMERATED {n16, n24, n32, n48, n64},
        pscch-RxSidelink-r16                          ENUMERATED {value1, value2},
        scs-CP-PatternRxSidelink-r16                  CHOICE {
            fr1-r16                                       SEQUENCE {
                scs-15kHz-r16                                 BIT STRING (SIZE (16))                OPTIONAL,
                scs-30kHz-r16                                 BIT STRING (SIZE (16))                OPTIONAL,
                scs-60kHz-r16                                 BIT STRING (SIZE (16))                OPTIONAL
            },
            fr2-r16                                       SEQUENCE {
                scs-60kHz-r16                                 BIT STRING (SIZE (16))                OPTIONAL,
                scs-120kHz-r16                                BIT STRING (SIZE (16))                OPTIONAL
            }
        }                                                                                           OPTIONAL,
        extendedCP-RxSidelink-r16                     ENUMERATED {supported}                        OPTIONAL
    }                                                                                               OPTIONAL,
    --15-2
    sl-TransmissionMode1-r16                      SEQUENCE {
        harq-TxProcessModeOneSidelink-r16             ENUMERATED {n8, n16},
        scs-CP-PatternTxSidelinkModeOne-r16           CHOICE {
            fr1-r16                                       SEQUENCE {
                scs-15kHz-r16                                 BIT STRING (SIZE (16))                OPTIONAL,
                scs-30kHz-r16                                 BIT STRING (SIZE (16))                OPTIONAL,
                scs-60kHz-r16                                 BIT STRING (SIZE (16))                OPTIONAL
            },
            fr2-r16                                       SEQUENCE {
                scs-60kHz-r16                                 BIT STRING (SIZE (16))                OPTIONAL,
                scs-120kHz-r16                                BIT STRING (SIZE (16))                OPTIONAL
            }
        },
        extendedCP-TxSidelink-r16                     ENUMERATED {supported}                        OPTIONAL,
        harq-ReportOnPUCCH-r16                        ENUMERATED {supported}                        OPTIONAL
    }                                                                                               OPTIONAL,
    --15-4
    sync-Sidelink-r16                             SEQUENCE {
        gNB-Sync-r16                                  ENUMERATED {supported}                        OPTIONAL,
        gNB-GNSS-UE-SyncWithPriorityOnGNB-ENB-r16     ENUMERATED {supported}                        OPTIONAL,
        gNB-GNSS-UE-SyncWithPriorityOnGNSS-r16        ENUMERATED {supported}                        OPTIONAL
    }                                                                                               OPTIONAL,
    --15-10
    sl-Tx-256QAM-r16                              ENUMERATED {supported}                            OPTIONAL,
    --15-11
    psfch-FormatZeroSidelink-r16                  SEQUENCE {
        psfch-RxNumber                                ENUMERATED {n5, n15, n25, n32, n35, n45, n50, n64},
        psfch-TxNumber                                ENUMERATED {n4, n8, n16}
    }                                                                                               OPTIONAL,
    --15-12
    lowSE-64QAM-MCS-TableSidelink-r16             ENUMERATED {supported}                            OPTIONAL,
    --15-15
    enb-sync-Sidelink-r16                         ENUMERATED {supported}                            OPTIONAL,
    ...,
    [[
    --15-3
    sl-TransmissionMode2-r16                      SEQUENCE {
        harq-TxProcessModeTwoSidelink-r16              ENUMERATED {n8, n16},
        scs-CP-PatternTxSidelinkModeTwo-r16           ENUMERATED {supported}                        OPTIONAL,
        dl-openLoopPC-Sidelink-r16                    ENUMERATED {supported}                        OPTIONAL
    }                                                                                               OPTIONAL,
    --15-5
    congestionControlSidelink-r16                 SEQUENCE {
        cbr-ReportSidelink-r16                        ENUMERATED {supported}                        OPTIONAL,
        cbr-CR-TimeLimitSidelink-r16                  ENUMERATED {time1, time2}
    }                                                                                               OPTIONAL,
    --15-22
    fewerSymbolSlotSidelink-r16                   ENUMERATED {supported}                            OPTIONAL,
    --15-23
    sl-openLoopPC-RSRP-ReportSidelink-r16         ENUMERATED {supported}                            OPTIONAL,
    --13-1
    sl-Rx-256QAM-r16                              ENUMERATED {supported}                            OPTIONAL
    ]],
    [[
    ue-PowerClassSidelink-r16                         ENUMERATED {pc2, pc3, pc5-v1820, spare5, spare4, spare3, spare2, spare1}
                                                                                                                     OPTIONAL
    ]],
    [[
    --32-4a
    sl-TransmissionMode2-RandomResourceSelection-r17 SEQUENCE {
        harq-TxProcessModeTwoSidelink-r17             ENUMERATED {n8, n16},
        scs-CP-PatternTxSidelinkModeTwo-r17               CHOICE {
            fr1-r17                                           SEQUENCE {
                scs-15kHz-r17                                     BIT STRING (SIZE (16))            OPTIONAL,
                scs-30kHz-r17                                     BIT STRING (SIZE (16))            OPTIONAL,
                scs-60kHz-r17                                     BIT STRING (SIZE (16))            OPTIONAL
            },
            fr2-r17                                           SEQUENCE {
                scs-60kHz-r17                                     BIT STRING (SIZE (16))            OPTIONAL,
                scs-120kHz-r17                                    BIT STRING (SIZE (16))            OPTIONAL
            }
        }                                                                                           OPTIONAL,
        extendedCP-Mode2Random-r17                    ENUMERATED {supported}                        OPTIONAL,
        dl-openLoopPC-Sidelink-r17                    ENUMERATED {supported}                        OPTIONAL
    }                                                                                               OPTIONAL,
    --32-4b
    sync-Sidelink-v1710                           SEQUENCE {
        sync-GNSS-r17                                 ENUMERATED {supported}                        OPTIONAL,
        gNB-Sync-r17                                  ENUMERATED {supported}                        OPTIONAL,
        gNB-GNSS-UE-SyncWithPriorityOnGNB-ENB-r17     ENUMERATED {supported}                        OPTIONAL,
        gNB-GNSS-UE-SyncWithPriorityOnGNSS-r17        ENUMERATED {supported}                        OPTIONAL
    }                                                                                               OPTIONAL,
    --32-4c
    enb-sync-Sidelink-v1710                       ENUMERATED {supported}                            OPTIONAL,
    --32-5a-2
    rx-IUC-Scheme1-PreferredMode2Sidelink-r17     ENUMERATED {supported}                            OPTIONAL,
    --32-5a-3
    rx-IUC-Scheme1-NonPreferredMode2Sidelink-r17  ENUMERATED {supported}                            OPTIONAL,
    --32-5b-2
    rx-IUC-Scheme2-Mode2Sidelink-r17              ENUMERATED {n5, n15, n25, n32, n35, n45, n50, n64} OPTIONAL,
    --32-6-1
    rx-IUC-Scheme1-SCI-r17                        ENUMERATED {supported}                            OPTIONAL,
    --32-6-2
    rx-IUC-Scheme1-SCI-ExplicitReq-r17            ENUMERATED {supported}                            OPTIONAL
    ]],
    [[
    sharedSpectrumChAccessParamsSidelinkPerBand-r18 SharedSpectrumChAccessParamsSidelinkPerBand-r18 OPTIONAL,
    --R1 41-1-1 Common SL-PRS processing capability in a SL BWP
    sl-PRS-CommonProcCapabilityPerBand-r18        SEQUENCE {
        maxSL-PRS-Bandwidth-r18                       CHOICE {
            fr1-r18                                       ENUMERATED {mhz5, mhz10, mhz20, mhz40, mhz50, mhz80, mhz100},
            fr2-r18                                       ENUMERATED {mhz50, mhz100, mhz200, mhz400}
        },
        maxNumOfActiveSL-PRS-ResourcesInOneSlot-r18   CHOICE {
            fr1-r18                                       ENUMERATED {n1, n2, n4, n6, n8, n12, n16, n24},
            fr2-r18                                       ENUMERATED {n1, n2, n4, n6, n8, n12, n16, n24, n32, n48, n64, n128}
        },
        maxNumOfSlotsWithActiveSL-PRS-Resources-r18   CHOICE {
            fr1-r18                                       ENUMERATED {n1, n2, n3, n4, n6, n8},
            fr2-r18                                       ENUMERATED {n1, n2, n4, n8, n12, n16, n24, n32, n48, n64}
        },
        minTimeAfterEndofSlotCarryActiveSL-PRS-Resources-r18 ENUMERATED {ms20, ms30, ms40, ms50, ms80, ms100, ms160}
    }                                                                                               OPTIONAL,

    -- R1 41-1-2: Receiving SL-PRS in a shared resource pool
    sl-PRS-RxInSharedResourcePool-r18             ENUMERATED {supported}                            OPTIONAL,
    -- R1 41-1-3: Receiving SL-PRS in a dedicated resource pool
    sl-PRS-RxInDedicatedResourcePool-r18          SEQUENCE {
        numOfSupportedRxPSCCH-PerSlot-r18             ENUMERATED {value1, value2},
        supportedCP-TypeFor60kHzSCS-r18               ENUMERATED {ncp, ncpAndECP}
    }                                                                                               OPTIONAL,
    -- R1 41-1-4a: Transmitting SL-PRS in a shared resource pool
    sl-PRS-TxInSharedResourcePool-r18             ENUMERATED {supported}                            OPTIONAL,
    -- R1 41-1-4b: Transmitting SL-PRS scheme 1 in a dedicated resource pool
    sl-PRS-TxScheme1InDedicatedResourcePool-r18   ENUMERATED {supported}                            OPTIONAL,
    -- R1 41-1-4c: Transmitting SL-PRS mode 2 in a dedicated resource pool
    sl-PRS-TxScheme2InDedicatedResourcePool-r18   ENUMERATED {supported}                            OPTIONAL,
    -- R1 41-1-5: SL-PRS congestion control in a dedicated resource pool
    sl-PRS-CongestionCtrl-r18                     ENUMERATED {cpt1, cpt2, cpt3}                     OPTIONAL,
    -- R1 41-1-8: Support of random selection in a dedicated resource pool
    sl-PRS-TxRandomSelection-r18                  ENUMERATED {supported}                            OPTIONAL,
    -- R1 41-1-10: Support of full sensing in a dedicated resource pool
    sl-PRS-TxUsingFullSensing-r18                 ENUMERATED {value1, value2}                       OPTIONAL,
    -- R1 41-1-20: Supports SL PRS Rx for a band configured with SL CA
    sl-PRS-RxForBandWithSL-CA-r18                 ENUMERATED {supported}                            OPTIONAL,
    -- R1 41-1-21: Supports SL PRS Tx for a band configured with SL CA
    sl-PRS-TxForBandWithSL-CA-r18                 ENUMERATED {supported}                            OPTIONAL,
    -- R1 47-s1: Transmission/Reception using dynamic resource pool sharing
    sl-DynamicSharingTxRx-r18                     ENUMERATED {supported}                            OPTIONAL,
    -- R1 47-v1: NR SL communication with SL CA
    sl-CA-Communication-r18                       SEQUENCE {
        numberOfCarriers-r18                          INTEGER (2..8),
        numberOfPSCCH-DecodeValueZ-r18                INTEGER (1..2),
        totalBandwidth-r18                            ENUMERATED {mhz20,mhz30,mhz40,mhz50,mhz60,mhz70}
    }                                                                                               OPTIONAL,
    -- R1 47-v2: Synchronization for SL CA
    sl-CA-Synchronization-r18                     ENUMERATED {supported}                            OPTIONAL,
    -- R1 47-v3: PSFCH for SL CA
    sl-CA-PSFCH-r18                               SEQUENCE {
        rx-PSFCH-Resource-r18                         ENUMERATED {n5,n15,n25,n32,n35,n45,n50,n64,n100},
        tx-PSFCH-Resource-r18                         ENUMERATED {n4,n8,n16,n24}
    }                                                                                               OPTIONAL,
    -- R4 45-2: SL reception in intra-carrier guard band
    sl-ReceptionIntraCarrierGuardBand-r18         ENUMERATED {supported}                            OPTIONAL
    ]],
    [[
    -- R1 41-1-17: Open loop SL pathloss based power control for SL-PRS and associated PSCCH and SL RSRP report for dedicated
    -- resource pool
    sl-PathlossBasedOLPC-SL-RSRP-Report-r18       ENUMERATED {supported}                            OPTIONAL
    ]]
}

RelayParameters-r17 ::= SEQUENCE {
    relayUE-Operation-L2-r17                                ENUMERATED {supported}                  OPTIONAL,
    remoteUE-Operation-L2-r17                               ENUMERATED {supported}                  OPTIONAL,
    remoteUE-PathSwitchToIdleInactiveRelay-r17              ENUMERATED {supported}                  OPTIONAL,
    ...,
    [[
    relayUE-U2U-OperationL2-r18                             ENUMERATED {supported}                  OPTIONAL,
    remoteUE-U2U-OperationL2-r18                            ENUMERATED {supported}                  OPTIONAL,
    remoteUE-U2N-PathSwitchOperationL2-r18                  ENUMERATED {supported}                  OPTIONAL,
    multipathRemoteUE-PC5L2-r18                             ENUMERATED {supported}                  OPTIONAL,
    multipathRelayUE-N3C-r18                                ENUMERATED {supported}                  OPTIONAL,
    multipathRemoteUE-N3C-r18                               ENUMERATED {supported}                  OPTIONAL,
    remoteUE-IndirectPathAddChangeToIdleInactiveRelay-r18   ENUMERATED {supported}                  OPTIONAL,
    pdcp-DuplicationMoreThanOneUuRLC-r18                    ENUMERATED {supported}                  OPTIONAL,
    pdcp-CADuplicationDirectpath-DRB-r18                    ENUMERATED {supported}                  OPTIONAL,
    pdcp-CADuplicationDirectpath-SRB-r18                    ENUMERATED {supported}                  OPTIONAL,
    pdcp-DuplicationMP-SplitDRB-r18                         ENUMERATED {supported}                  OPTIONAL,
    pdcp-DuplicationMP-SplitSRB-r18                         ENUMERATED {supported}                  OPTIONAL,
    directpathRLF-RecoveryViaSRB1-r18                       ENUMERATED {supported}                  OPTIONAL,
    splitDRB-WithUL-BothDirectIndirect-r18                  ENUMERATED {supported}                  OPTIONAL
    ]]
}

PDCP-ParametersSidelink-r18 ::= SEQUENCE {
    pdcp-DuplicationSRB-sidelink-r18                        ENUMERATED {supported}                  OPTIONAL,
    pdcp-DuplicationDRB-sidelink-r18                        ENUMERATED {supported}                  OPTIONAL,
    ...
}

-- TAG-SIDELINKPARAMETERS-STOP
-- ASN1STOP



–	SimultaneousRxTxPerBandPair
The IE SimultaneousRxTxPerBandPair contains the simultaneous Rx/Tx UE capability for each band pair in a band combination.
SimultaneousRxTxPerBandPair information element
-- ASN1START
-- TAG-SIMULTANEOUSRXTXPERBANDPAIR-START

SimultaneousRxTxPerBandPair ::=             BIT STRING (SIZE (3..496))

-- TAG-SIMULTANEOUSRXTXPERBANDPAIR-STOP
-- ASN1STOP

–	SON-Parameters
The IE SON-Parameters contains SON related parameters.
SON-Parameters information element
-- ASN1START
-- TAG-SON-PARAMETERS-START

SON-Parameters-r16 ::= SEQUENCE {
    rach-Report-r16        ENUMERATED {supported}    OPTIONAL,
    ...,
    [[
    rlfReportCHO-r17       ENUMERATED {supported}    OPTIONAL,
    rlfReportDAPS-r17      ENUMERATED {supported}    OPTIONAL,
    success-HO-Report-r17  ENUMERATED {supported}    OPTIONAL,
    twoStepRACH-Report-r17 ENUMERATED {supported}    OPTIONAL,
    pscell-MHI-Report-r17  ENUMERATED {supported}    OPTIONAL,
    onDemandSI-Report-r17  ENUMERATED {supported}    OPTIONAL
    ]],
    [[
    cef-ReportRedCap-r17   ENUMERATED {supported}    OPTIONAL,
    rlf-ReportRedCap-r17   ENUMERATED {supported}    OPTIONAL
    ]],
    [[
    spr-Report-r18            ENUMERATED {supported} OPTIONAL,
    successIRAT-HO-Report-r18 ENUMERATED {supported} OPTIONAL
    ]]
}

-- TAG-SON-PARAMETERS-STOP
-- ASN1STOP

–	SpatialRelationsSRS-Pos
The IE SpatialRelationsSRS-Pos is used to convey spatial relation for SRS for positioning related parameters.
SpatialRelationsSRS-Pos information element
-- ASN1START
-- TAG-SPATIALRELATIONSSRS-POS-START

SpatialRelationsSRS-Pos-r16 ::=                    SEQUENCE {
    spatialRelation-SRS-PosBasedOnSSB-Serving-r16      ENUMERATED {supported}                OPTIONAL,
    spatialRelation-SRS-PosBasedOnCSI-RS-Serving-r16   ENUMERATED {supported}                OPTIONAL,
    spatialRelation-SRS-PosBasedOnPRS-Serving-r16      ENUMERATED {supported}                OPTIONAL,
    spatialRelation-SRS-PosBasedOnSRS-r16              ENUMERATED {supported}                OPTIONAL,
    spatialRelation-SRS-PosBasedOnSSB-Neigh-r16        ENUMERATED {supported}                OPTIONAL,
    spatialRelation-SRS-PosBasedOnPRS-Neigh-r16        ENUMERATED {supported}                OPTIONAL
}

--TAG-SPATIALRELATIONSSRS-POS-STOP
-- ASN1STOP

–	SRS-AllPosResourcesRRC-Inactive
The IE SRS-AllPosResourcesRRC-Inactive is used to convey SRS positioning related parameters specific for a certain band.
SRS-AllPosResourcesRRC-Inactive information element
-- ASN1START
-- TAG-SRS-ALLPOSRESOURCESRRC-INACTIVE-START

SRS-AllPosResourcesRRC-Inactive-r17 ::=             SEQUENCE {
    srs-PosResourcesRRC-Inactive-r17                    SEQUENCE {
    -- R1 27-15: Positioning SRS transmission in RRC_INACTIVE state for initial UL BWP
        maxNumberSRS-PosResourceSetPerBWP-r17               ENUMERATED {n1, n2, n4, n8, n12, n16},
        maxNumberSRS-PosResourcesPerBWP-r17                 ENUMERATED {n1, n2, n4, n8, n16, n32, n64},
        maxNumberSRS-ResourcesPerBWP-PerSlot-r17            ENUMERATED {n1, n2, n3, n4, n5, n6, n8, n10, n12, n14},
        maxNumberPeriodicSRS-PosResourcesPerBWP-r17         ENUMERATED {n1, n2, n4, n8, n16, n32, n64},
        maxNumberPeriodicSRS-PosResourcesPerBWP-PerSlot-r17 ENUMERATED {n1, n2, n3, n4, n5, n6, n8, n10, n12, n14},
        dummy1                                              ENUMERATED {n1, n2, n4, n8, n16, n32, n64 },
        dummy2                                              ENUMERATED {n1, n2, n3, n4, n5, n6, n8, n10, n12, n14}
    }
}

-- TAG-SRS-ALLPOSRESOURCESRRC-INACTIVE-STOP
-- ASN1STOP




–	SRS-SwitchingTimeNR
The IE SRS-SwitchingTimeNR is used to indicate the SRS carrier switching time supported by the UE for one NR band pair.
SRS-SwitchingTimeNR information element
-- ASN1START
-- TAG-SRS-SWITCHINGTIMENR-START

SRS-SwitchingTimeNR ::= SEQUENCE {
    switchingTimeDL         ENUMERATED {n0us, n30us, n100us, n140us, n200us, n300us, n500us, n900us}  OPTIONAL,
    switchingTimeUL         ENUMERATED {n0us, n30us, n100us, n140us, n200us, n300us, n500us, n900us}  OPTIONAL
}

-- TAG-SRS-SWITCHINGTIMENR-STOP
-- ASN1STOP

–	SRS-SwitchingTimeEUTRA
The IE SRS-SwitchingTimeEUTRA is used to indicate the SRS carrier switching time supported by the UE for one E-UTRA band pair.
SRS-SwitchingTimeEUTRA information element
-- ASN1START
-- TAG-SRS-SWITCHINGTIMEEUTRA-START

SRS-SwitchingTimeEUTRA ::= SEQUENCE {
    switchingTimeDL            ENUMERATED {n0, n0dot5, n1, n1dot5, n2, n2dot5, n3, n3dot5, n4, n4dot5, n5, n5dot5, n6, n6dot5, n7}
                                                                                               OPTIONAL,
    switchingTimeUL            ENUMERATED {n0, n0dot5, n1, n1dot5, n2, n2dot5, n3, n3dot5, n4, n4dot5, n5, n5dot5, n6, n6dot5, n7}
                                                                                               OPTIONAL
}
-- TAG-SRS-SWITCHINGTIMEEUTRA-STOP
-- ASN1STOP

–	SupportedAggBandwidth
The IE SupportedAggBandwidth is used to indicate the aggregated bandwidth supported by the UE.
SupportedAggBandwidth information element
-- ASN1START
-- TAG-SUPPORTEDAGGBANDWIDTH-START

SupportedAggBandwidth-r17 ::=     CHOICE {
    fr1-r17     ENUMERATED {mhz20, mhz30, mhz35, mhz40, mhz50, mhz60, mhz70, mhz80, mhz90, mhz100, mhz110, mhz120, mhz130, mhz140,
                            mhz150, mhz160, mhz180, mhz200, mhz220, mhz230, mhz250, mhz280, mhz290, mhz300, mhz350, mhz400, mhz450,
                            mhz500, mhz600, mhz700, mhz800, spare1},
    fr2-r17     ENUMERATED {mhz200, mhz300, mhz400, mhz500, mhz600, mhz700, mhz800, mhz900, mhz1000, mhz1100, mhz1200, mhz1300, mhz1400,
                            mhz1500, mhz1600, mhz1700, mhz1800, mhz1900, mhz2000, mhz2100, mhz2200, mhz2300, mhz2400, spare9, spare8,
                            spare7, spare6, spare5, spare4, spare3, spare2, spare1}
}

-- TAG-SUPPORTEDAGGBANDWIDTH-STOP
-- ASN1STOP

–	SupportedBandwidth
The IE SupportedBandwidth is used to indicate the channel bandwidth supported by the UE on one carrier of a band of a band combination.
SupportedBandwidth information element
-- ASN1START
-- TAG-SUPPORTEDBANDWIDTH-START

SupportedBandwidth ::=      CHOICE {
    fr1                         ENUMERATED {mhz5, mhz10, mhz15, mhz20, mhz25, mhz30, mhz40, mhz50, mhz60, mhz80, mhz100},
    fr2                         ENUMERATED {mhz50, mhz100, mhz200, mhz400}
}

SupportedBandwidth-v1700 ::= CHOICE {
    fr1-r17    ENUMERATED {mhz5, mhz10, mhz15, mhz20, mhz25, mhz30, mhz35, mhz40, mhz45, mhz50, mhz60, mhz70, mhz80, mhz90, mhz100},
    fr2-r17    ENUMERATED {mhz50, mhz100, mhz200, mhz400, mhz800, mhz1600, mhz2000}
}

SupportedBandwidth-v1840 ::=  ENUMERATED {mhz3}

-- TAG-SUPPORTEDBANDWIDTH-STOP
-- ASN1STOP

–	UE-BasedPerfMeas-Parameters
The IE UE-BasedPerfMeas-Parameters contains UE-based performance measurement parameters.
UE-BasedPerfMeas-Parameters information element
-- ASN1START
-- TAG-UE-BASEDPERFMEAS-PARAMETERS-START

UE-BasedPerfMeas-Parameters-r16 ::= SEQUENCE {
    barometerMeasReport-r16      ENUMERATED {supported}        OPTIONAL,
    immMeasBT-r16                ENUMERATED {supported}        OPTIONAL,
    immMeasWLAN-r16              ENUMERATED {supported}        OPTIONAL,
    loggedMeasBT-r16             ENUMERATED {supported}        OPTIONAL,
    loggedMeasurements-r16       ENUMERATED {supported}        OPTIONAL,
    loggedMeasWLAN-r16           ENUMERATED {supported}        OPTIONAL,
    orientationMeasReport-r16    ENUMERATED {supported}        OPTIONAL,
    speedMeasReport-r16          ENUMERATED {supported}        OPTIONAL,
    gnss-Location-r16            ENUMERATED {supported}        OPTIONAL,
    ulPDCP-Delay-r16             ENUMERATED {supported}        OPTIONAL,
    ...,
    [[
    sigBasedLogMDT-OverrideProtect-r17 ENUMERATED {supported}  OPTIONAL,
    multipleCEF-Report-r17             ENUMERATED {supported}  OPTIONAL,
    excessPacketDelay-r17              ENUMERATED {supported}  OPTIONAL,
    earlyMeasLog-r17                   ENUMERATED {supported}  OPTIONAL
    ]],
    [[
    loggedMDT-PNI-NPN-r18              ENUMERATED {supported}  OPTIONAL,
    loggedMDT-SNPN-r18                 ENUMERATED {supported}  OPTIONAL
    ]]
}

-- TAG-UE-BASEDPERFMEAS-PARAMETERS-STOP
-- ASN1STOP

–	UE-CapabilityRAT-ContainerList
The IE UE-CapabilityRAT-ContainerList contains a list of radio access technology specific capability containers.
UE-CapabilityRAT-ContainerList information element
-- ASN1START
-- TAG-UE-CAPABILITYRAT-CONTAINERLIST-START

UE-CapabilityRAT-ContainerList ::=    SEQUENCE (SIZE (0..maxRAT-CapabilityContainers)) OF UE-CapabilityRAT-Container

UE-CapabilityRAT-Container ::=        SEQUENCE {
    rat-Type                              RAT-Type,
    ue-CapabilityRAT-Container            OCTET STRING
}

-- TAG-UE-CAPABILITYRAT-CONTAINERLIST-STOP
-- ASN1STOP



–	UE-CapabilityRAT-RequestList
The IE UE-CapabilityRAT-RequestList is used to request UE capabilities for one or more RATs from the UE.
UE-CapabilityRAT-RequestList information element
-- ASN1START
-- TAG-UE-CAPABILITYRAT-REQUESTLIST-START

UE-CapabilityRAT-RequestList ::=        SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxRAT-CapabilityContainers)) OF UE-CapabilityRAT-Request

UE-CapabilityRAT-Request ::=            SEQUENCE {
    rat-Type                                RAT-Type,
    capabilityRequestFilter                 OCTET STRING                    OPTIONAL,   -- Need N
    ...
}

-- TAG-UE-CAPABILITYRAT-REQUESTLIST-STOP
-- ASN1STOP



–	UE-CapabilityRequestFilterCommon
The IE UE-CapabilityRequestFilterCommon is used to request filtered UE capabilities. The filter is common for all capability containers that are requested.
UE-CapabilityRequestFilterCommon information element
-- ASN1START
-- TAG-UE-CAPABILITYREQUESTFILTERCOMMON-START

UE-CapabilityRequestFilterCommon ::=            SEQUENCE {
    mrdc-Request                                SEQUENCE {
        omitEN-DC                                   ENUMERATED {true}                      OPTIONAL,    -- Need N
        includeNR-DC                                ENUMERATED {true}                      OPTIONAL,    -- Need N
        includeNE-DC                                ENUMERATED {true}                      OPTIONAL     -- Need N
    }                                                                                  OPTIONAL,        -- Need N
    ...,
    [[
    codebookTypeRequest-r16        SEQUENCE {
        type1-SinglePanel-r16          ENUMERATED {true}                                    OPTIONAL,    -- Need N
        type1-MultiPanel-r16           ENUMERATED {true}                                    OPTIONAL,    -- Need N
        type2-r16                      ENUMERATED {true}                                    OPTIONAL,    -- Need N
        type2-PortSelection-r16        ENUMERATED {true}                                    OPTIONAL     -- Need N
    }                                                                                   OPTIONAL,    -- Need N
    uplinkTxSwitchRequest-r16      ENUMERATED {true}                                    OPTIONAL     -- Need N
    ]],
    [[
    requestedCellGrouping-r16      SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxCellGroupings-r16)) OF CellGrouping-r16    OPTIONAL    -- Cond NRDC
    ]],
    [[
    fallbackGroupFiveRequest-r17   ENUMERATED {true}                                    OPTIONAL     -- Need N
    ]],
    [[
    lowerMSDRequest-r18            SEQUENCE {
        pc1dot5-r18                    ENUMERATED {true}                                    OPTIONAL,    -- Need N
        pc2-r18                        ENUMERATED {true}                                    OPTIONAL,    -- Need N
        pc3-r18                        ENUMERATED {true}                                    OPTIONAL     -- Need N
    }                                                                                       OPTIONAL     -- Need N
    ]]
}

CellGrouping-r16 ::=    SEQUENCE {
    mcg-r16                 SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxBands)) OF FreqBandIndicatorNR,
    scg-r16                 SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxBands)) OF FreqBandIndicatorNR,
    mode-r16                ENUMERATED {sync, async}
}


-- TAG-UE-CAPABILITYREQUESTFILTERCOMMON-STOP
-- ASN1STOP





–	UE-CapabilityRequestFilterNR
The IE UE-CapabilityRequestFilterNR is used to request filtered UE capabilities.
UE-CapabilityRequestFilterNR information element
-- ASN1START
-- TAG-UE-CAPABILITYREQUESTFILTERNR-START

UE-CapabilityRequestFilterNR ::=            SEQUENCE {
    frequencyBandListFilter                     FreqBandList                          OPTIONAL,   -- Need N
    nonCriticalExtension                        UE-CapabilityRequestFilterNR-v1540    OPTIONAL
}

UE-CapabilityRequestFilterNR-v1540 ::=      SEQUENCE {
    srs-SwitchingTimeRequest                    ENUMERATED {true}                     OPTIONAL,  -- Need N
    nonCriticalExtension                        UE-CapabilityRequestFilterNR-v1710    OPTIONAL
}

UE-CapabilityRequestFilterNR-v1710 ::=      SEQUENCE {
    sidelinkRequest-r17                         ENUMERATED {true}                     OPTIONAL,  -- Need N
    nonCriticalExtension                        SEQUENCE {}                           OPTIONAL
}

-- TAG-UE-CAPABILITYREQUESTFILTERNR-STOP
-- ASN1STOP

–	UE-MRDC-Capability
The IE UE-MRDC-Capability is used to convey the UE Radio Access Capability Parameters for MR-DC, see TS 38.306 [26].
UE-MRDC-Capability information element
-- ASN1START
-- TAG-UE-MRDC-CAPABILITY-START

UE-MRDC-Capability ::=              SEQUENCE {
    measAndMobParametersMRDC            MeasAndMobParametersMRDC                                                        OPTIONAL,
    phy-ParametersMRDC-v1530            Phy-ParametersMRDC                                                              OPTIONAL,
    rf-ParametersMRDC                   RF-ParametersMRDC,
    generalParametersMRDC               GeneralParametersMRDC-XDD-Diff                                                  OPTIONAL,
    fdd-Add-UE-MRDC-Capabilities        UE-MRDC-CapabilityAddXDD-Mode                                                   OPTIONAL,
    tdd-Add-UE-MRDC-Capabilities        UE-MRDC-CapabilityAddXDD-Mode                                                   OPTIONAL,
    fr1-Add-UE-MRDC-Capabilities        UE-MRDC-CapabilityAddFRX-Mode                                                   OPTIONAL,
    fr2-Add-UE-MRDC-Capabilities        UE-MRDC-CapabilityAddFRX-Mode                                                   OPTIONAL,
    featureSetCombinations              SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxFeatureSetCombinations)) OF FeatureSetCombination         OPTIONAL,
    pdcp-ParametersMRDC-v1530           PDCP-ParametersMRDC                                                             OPTIONAL,
    lateNonCriticalExtension            OCTET STRING (CONTAINING UE-MRDC-Capability-v15g0)                              OPTIONAL,
    nonCriticalExtension                UE-MRDC-Capability-v1560                                                        OPTIONAL
}

-- Regular non-critical extensions:
UE-MRDC-Capability-v1560 ::=        SEQUENCE {
    receivedFilters                     OCTET STRING (CONTAINING UECapabilityEnquiry-v1560-IEs)                         OPTIONAL,
    measAndMobParametersMRDC-v1560      MeasAndMobParametersMRDC-v1560                                                  OPTIONAL,
    fdd-Add-UE-MRDC-Capabilities-v1560  UE-MRDC-CapabilityAddXDD-Mode-v1560                                             OPTIONAL,
    tdd-Add-UE-MRDC-Capabilities-v1560  UE-MRDC-CapabilityAddXDD-Mode-v1560                                             OPTIONAL,
    nonCriticalExtension                UE-MRDC-Capability-v1610                                                        OPTIONAL
}

UE-MRDC-Capability-v1610 ::=        SEQUENCE {
    measAndMobParametersMRDC-v1610      MeasAndMobParametersMRDC-v1610                                                  OPTIONAL,
    generalParametersMRDC-v1610         GeneralParametersMRDC-v1610                                                     OPTIONAL,
    pdcp-ParametersMRDC-v1610           PDCP-ParametersMRDC-v1610                                                       OPTIONAL,
    nonCriticalExtension                UE-MRDC-Capability-v1700                                                        OPTIONAL
}

UE-MRDC-Capability-v1700 ::=        SEQUENCE {
    measAndMobParametersMRDC-v1700      MeasAndMobParametersMRDC-v1700,
    nonCriticalExtension                UE-MRDC-Capability-v1730                                                        OPTIONAL
}

UE-MRDC-Capability-v1730 ::=        SEQUENCE {
    measAndMobParametersMRDC-v1730      MeasAndMobParametersMRDC-v1730                                                  OPTIONAL,
    nonCriticalExtension                UE-MRDC-Capability-v1800                                                        OPTIONAL
}

UE-MRDC-Capability-v1800 ::=        SEQUENCE {
    -- R4 33-2: Support network control of requirementnetwork applicability for UE supporting interBandMRDC-WithOverlapDL-Bands-r16
    requirementTypeIndication-r18       ENUMERATED {supported}                                                          OPTIONAL,
    measAndMobParametersMRDC-v1810      MeasAndMobParametersMRDC-v1810                                                  OPTIONAL,
    nonCriticalExtension                SEQUENCE {}                                                                     OPTIONAL
}

-- Late non-critical extensions:
UE-MRDC-Capability-v15g0 ::=        SEQUENCE {
    rf-ParametersMRDC-v15g0             RF-ParametersMRDC-v15g0                                                         OPTIONAL,
    nonCriticalExtension                UE-MRDC-Capability-v15n0                                                        OPTIONAL
}

UE-MRDC-Capability-v15n0 ::=        SEQUENCE {
    rf-ParametersMRDC-v15n0             RF-ParametersMRDC-v15n0                                                         OPTIONAL,
-- Following field is only for REL-15 late non-critical extensions
    lateNonCriticalExtension            OCTET STRING                                                                    OPTIONAL,
    nonCriticalExtension                UE-MRDC-Capability-v16e0                                                        OPTIONAL
}

UE-MRDC-Capability-v16e0 ::=        SEQUENCE {
    rf-ParametersMRDC-v16e0             RF-ParametersMRDC-v16e0                                                         OPTIONAL,
    nonCriticalExtension                SEQUENCE {}                                                                     OPTIONAL
}

UE-MRDC-CapabilityAddXDD-Mode ::=   SEQUENCE {
    measAndMobParametersMRDC-XDD-Diff       MeasAndMobParametersMRDC-XDD-Diff                                           OPTIONAL,
    generalParametersMRDC-XDD-Diff          GeneralParametersMRDC-XDD-Diff                                              OPTIONAL
}

UE-MRDC-CapabilityAddXDD-Mode-v1560 ::=    SEQUENCE {
    measAndMobParametersMRDC-XDD-Diff-v1560    MeasAndMobParametersMRDC-XDD-Diff-v1560                                  OPTIONAL
}

UE-MRDC-CapabilityAddFRX-Mode ::=   SEQUENCE {
    measAndMobParametersMRDC-FRX-Diff       MeasAndMobParametersMRDC-FRX-Diff
}


GeneralParametersMRDC-XDD-Diff ::= SEQUENCE {
    splitSRB-WithOneUL-Path             ENUMERATED {supported}                                                          OPTIONAL,
    splitDRB-withUL-Both-MCG-SCG        ENUMERATED {supported}                                                          OPTIONAL,
    srb3                                ENUMERATED {supported}                                                          OPTIONAL,
    dummy                               ENUMERATED {supported}                                                          OPTIONAL,
    ...
}

GeneralParametersMRDC-v1610 ::= SEQUENCE {
    f1c-OverEUTRA-r16                   ENUMERATED {supported}                                                          OPTIONAL
}

-- TAG-UE-MRDC-CAPABILITY-STOP
-- ASN1STOP



–	UE-NR-Capability
The IE UE-NR-Capability is used to convey the NR UE Radio Access Capability Parameters, see TS 38.306 [26].
UE-NR-Capability information element
-- ASN1START
-- TAG-UE-NR-CAPABILITY-START

UE-NR-Capability ::=            SEQUENCE {
    accessStratumRelease            AccessStratumRelease,
    pdcp-Parameters                 PDCP-Parameters,
    rlc-Parameters                  RLC-Parameters                                                        OPTIONAL,
    mac-Parameters                  MAC-Parameters                                                        OPTIONAL,
    phy-Parameters                  Phy-Parameters,
    rf-Parameters                   RF-Parameters,
    measAndMobParameters            MeasAndMobParameters                                                  OPTIONAL,
    fdd-Add-UE-NR-Capabilities      UE-NR-CapabilityAddXDD-Mode                                           OPTIONAL,
    tdd-Add-UE-NR-Capabilities      UE-NR-CapabilityAddXDD-Mode                                           OPTIONAL,
    fr1-Add-UE-NR-Capabilities      UE-NR-CapabilityAddFRX-Mode                                           OPTIONAL,
    fr2-Add-UE-NR-Capabilities      UE-NR-CapabilityAddFRX-Mode                                           OPTIONAL,
    featureSets                     FeatureSets                                                           OPTIONAL,
    featureSetCombinations          SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxFeatureSetCombinations)) OF FeatureSetCombination         OPTIONAL,
    lateNonCriticalExtension        OCTET STRING (CONTAINING UE-NR-Capability-v15c0)                      OPTIONAL,
    nonCriticalExtension            UE-NR-Capability-v1530                                                OPTIONAL
}

-- Regular non-critical Rel-15 extensions:
UE-NR-Capability-v1530 ::=               SEQUENCE {
    fdd-Add-UE-NR-Capabilities-v1530         UE-NR-CapabilityAddXDD-Mode-v1530                            OPTIONAL,
    tdd-Add-UE-NR-Capabilities-v1530         UE-NR-CapabilityAddXDD-Mode-v1530                            OPTIONAL,
    dummy                                    ENUMERATED {supported}                                       OPTIONAL,
    interRAT-Parameters                      InterRAT-Parameters                                          OPTIONAL,
    inactiveState                            ENUMERATED {supported}                                       OPTIONAL,
    delayBudgetReporting                     ENUMERATED {supported}                                       OPTIONAL,
    nonCriticalExtension                     UE-NR-Capability-v1540                                       OPTIONAL
}

UE-NR-Capability-v1540 ::=              SEQUENCE {
    sdap-Parameters                         SDAP-Parameters                                               OPTIONAL,
    overheatingInd                          ENUMERATED {supported}                                        OPTIONAL,
    ims-Parameters                          IMS-Parameters                                                OPTIONAL,
    fr1-Add-UE-NR-Capabilities-v1540        UE-NR-CapabilityAddFRX-Mode-v1540                             OPTIONAL,
    fr2-Add-UE-NR-Capabilities-v1540        UE-NR-CapabilityAddFRX-Mode-v1540                             OPTIONAL,
    fr1-fr2-Add-UE-NR-Capabilities          UE-NR-CapabilityAddFRX-Mode                                   OPTIONAL,
    nonCriticalExtension                    UE-NR-Capability-v1550                                        OPTIONAL
}

UE-NR-Capability-v1550 ::=               SEQUENCE {
    reducedCP-Latency                        ENUMERATED {supported}                                       OPTIONAL,
    nonCriticalExtension                     UE-NR-Capability-v1560                                       OPTIONAL
}

UE-NR-Capability-v1560 ::=               SEQUENCE {
    nrdc-Parameters                         NRDC-Parameters                                               OPTIONAL,
    receivedFilters                         OCTET STRING (CONTAINING UECapabilityEnquiry-v1560-IEs)       OPTIONAL,
    nonCriticalExtension                    UE-NR-Capability-v1570                                        OPTIONAL
}

UE-NR-Capability-v1570 ::=               SEQUENCE {
    nrdc-Parameters-v1570                   NRDC-Parameters-v1570                                         OPTIONAL,
    nonCriticalExtension                    UE-NR-Capability-v1610                                        OPTIONAL
}

-- Late non-critical Rel-15 extensions:
UE-NR-Capability-v15c0 ::=               SEQUENCE {
    nrdc-Parameters-v15c0                    NRDC-Parameters-v15c0                                        OPTIONAL,
    partialFR2-FallbackRX-Req                ENUMERATED {true}                                            OPTIONAL,
    nonCriticalExtension                     UE-NR-Capability-v15g0                                       OPTIONAL
}

UE-NR-Capability-v15g0 ::=               SEQUENCE {
    rf-Parameters-v15g0                      RF-Parameters-v15g0                                          OPTIONAL,
    nonCriticalExtension                     UE-NR-Capability-v15j0                                       OPTIONAL
}

UE-NR-Capability-v15j0 ::=               SEQUENCE {
    -- Following field is only for REL-15 late non-critical extensions
    lateNonCriticalExtension                 OCTET STRING (CONTAINING UE-NR-Capability-v15t0)             OPTIONAL,
    nonCriticalExtension                     UE-NR-Capability-v16a0                                       OPTIONAL
}

UE-NR-Capability-v15t0 ::=               SEQUENCE {
    featureSets-v15t0                        FeatureSets-v15t0                                            OPTIONAL,
    measAndMobParameters-v15t0               MeasAndMobParameters-v15t0                                   OPTIONAL,
    nonCriticalExtension                     SEQUENCE {}                                                  OPTIONAL
}

-- Regular non-critical Rel-16 extensions:
UE-NR-Capability-v1610 ::=               SEQUENCE {
    inDeviceCoexInd-r16                     ENUMERATED {supported}                                        OPTIONAL,
    dl-DedicatedMessageSegmentation-r16     ENUMERATED {supported}                                        OPTIONAL,
    nrdc-Parameters-v1610                   NRDC-Parameters-v1610                                         OPTIONAL,
    powSav-Parameters-r16                   PowSav-Parameters-r16                                         OPTIONAL,
    fr1-Add-UE-NR-Capabilities-v1610        UE-NR-CapabilityAddFRX-Mode-v1610                             OPTIONAL,
    fr2-Add-UE-NR-Capabilities-v1610        UE-NR-CapabilityAddFRX-Mode-v1610                             OPTIONAL,
    bh-RLF-Indication-r16                   ENUMERATED {supported}                                        OPTIONAL,
    directSN-AdditionFirstRRC-IAB-r16       ENUMERATED {supported}                                        OPTIONAL,
    bap-Parameters-r16                      BAP-Parameters-r16                                            OPTIONAL,
    referenceTimeProvision-r16              ENUMERATED {supported}                                        OPTIONAL,
    sidelinkParameters-r16                  SidelinkParameters-r16                                        OPTIONAL,
    highSpeedParameters-r16                 HighSpeedParameters-r16                                       OPTIONAL,
    mac-Parameters-v1610                    MAC-Parameters-v1610                                          OPTIONAL,
    mcgRLF-RecoveryViaSCG-r16               ENUMERATED {supported}                                        OPTIONAL,
    resumeWithStoredMCG-SCells-r16          ENUMERATED {supported}                                        OPTIONAL,
    resumeWithStoredSCG-r16                 ENUMERATED {supported}                                        OPTIONAL,
    resumeWithSCG-Config-r16                ENUMERATED {supported}                                        OPTIONAL,
    ue-BasedPerfMeas-Parameters-r16         UE-BasedPerfMeas-Parameters-r16                               OPTIONAL,
    son-Parameters-r16                      SON-Parameters-r16                                            OPTIONAL,
    onDemandSIB-Connected-r16               ENUMERATED {supported}                                        OPTIONAL,
    nonCriticalExtension                    UE-NR-Capability-v1640                                        OPTIONAL
}

UE-NR-Capability-v1640 ::=               SEQUENCE {
    redirectAtResumeByNAS-r16               ENUMERATED {supported}                                        OPTIONAL,
    phy-ParametersSharedSpectrumChAccess-r16  Phy-ParametersSharedSpectrumChAccess-r16                    OPTIONAL,
    nonCriticalExtension                    UE-NR-Capability-v1650                                        OPTIONAL
}

UE-NR-Capability-v1650 ::=               SEQUENCE {
    mpsPriorityIndication-r16                ENUMERATED {supported}                                       OPTIONAL,
    highSpeedParameters-v1650                HighSpeedParameters-v1650                                    OPTIONAL,
    nonCriticalExtension                     UE-NR-Capability-v1690                                       OPTIONAL
}

UE-NR-Capability-v1690 ::=               SEQUENCE {
    ul-RRC-Segmentation-r16                  ENUMERATED {supported}                                       OPTIONAL,
    nonCriticalExtension                     UE-NR-Capability-v1700                                       OPTIONAL
}

-- Late non-critical extensions from Rel-16 onwards:
UE-NR-Capability-v16a0 ::=               SEQUENCE {
    phy-Parameters-v16a0                     Phy-Parameters-v16a0                                         OPTIONAL,
    rf-Parameters-v16a0                      RF-Parameters-v16a0                                          OPTIONAL,
    nonCriticalExtension                     UE-NR-Capability-v16c0                                       OPTIONAL
}

UE-NR-Capability-v16c0 ::=               SEQUENCE {
    rf-Parameters-v16c0                      RF-Parameters-v16c0                                          OPTIONAL,
    nonCriticalExtension                     UE-NR-Capability-v16d0                                       OPTIONAL
}

UE-NR-Capability-v16d0 ::=               SEQUENCE {
    featureSets-v16d0                        FeatureSets-v16d0                                            OPTIONAL,
    nonCriticalExtension                     UE-NR-Capability-v16j0                                       OPTIONAL
}

UE-NR-Capability-v16j0 ::=               SEQUENCE {
    rf-Parameters-v16j0                      RF-Parameters-v16j0                                          OPTIONAL,
    -- Following field is only for REL-16 late non-critical extensions
    lateNonCriticalExtension                 OCTET STRING (CONTAINING UE-NR-Capability-v16k0)             OPTIONAL,
    nonCriticalExtension                     UE-NR-Capability-v17b0                                       OPTIONAL
}

UE-NR-Capability-v16k0 ::=               SEQUENCE {
    featureSets-v16k0                        FeatureSets-v16k0                                            OPTIONAL,
    nonCriticalExtension                     SEQUENCE {}                                                  OPTIONAL
}

-- Regular non-critical Rel-17 extensions:
UE-NR-Capability-v1700 ::=               SEQUENCE {
    inactiveStatePO-Determination-r17        ENUMERATED {supported}                                       OPTIONAL,
    highSpeedParameters-v1700                HighSpeedParameters-v1700                                    OPTIONAL,
    powSav-Parameters-v1700                  PowSav-Parameters-v1700                                      OPTIONAL,
    mac-Parameters-v1700                     MAC-Parameters-v1700                                         OPTIONAL,
    ims-Parameters-v1700                     IMS-Parameters-v1700                                         OPTIONAL,
    measAndMobParameters-v1700               MeasAndMobParameters-v1700,
    appLayerMeasParameters-r17               AppLayerMeasParameters-r17                                   OPTIONAL,
    redCapParameters-r17                     RedCapParameters-r17                                         OPTIONAL,
    ra-SDT-r17                               ENUMERATED {supported}                                       OPTIONAL,
    srb-SDT-r17                              ENUMERATED {supported}                                       OPTIONAL,
    gNB-SideRTT-BasedPDC-r17                 ENUMERATED {supported}                                       OPTIONAL,
    bh-RLF-DetectionRecovery-Indication-r17  ENUMERATED {supported}                                       OPTIONAL,
    nrdc-Parameters-v1700                    NRDC-Parameters-v1700                                        OPTIONAL,
    bap-Parameters-v1700                     BAP-Parameters-v1700                                         OPTIONAL,
    musim-GapPreference-r17                  ENUMERATED {supported}                                       OPTIONAL,
    musimLeaveConnected-r17                  ENUMERATED {supported}                                       OPTIONAL,
    mbs-Parameters-r17                       MBS-Parameters-r17,
    nonTerrestrialNetwork-r17                ENUMERATED {supported}                                       OPTIONAL,
    ntn-ScenarioSupport-r17                  ENUMERATED {gso, ngso}                                       OPTIONAL,
    sliceInfoforCellReselection-r17          ENUMERATED {supported}                                       OPTIONAL,
    ue-RadioPagingInfo-r17                   UE-RadioPagingInfo-r17                                       OPTIONAL,
    -- R4 17-2 UL gap pattern for Tx power management
    ul-GapFR2-Pattern-r17                    BIT STRING (SIZE (4))                                        OPTIONAL,
    ntn-Parameters-r17                       NTN-Parameters-r17                                           OPTIONAL,
    nonCriticalExtension                     UE-NR-Capability-v1740                                       OPTIONAL
}

UE-NR-Capability-v1740 ::=               SEQUENCE {
    redCapParameters-v1740                   RedCapParameters-v1740,
    nonCriticalExtension                     UE-NR-Capability-v1750                                       OPTIONAL
}

UE-NR-Capability-v1750 ::=               SEQUENCE {
    crossCarrierSchedulingConfigurationRelease-r17  ENUMERATED {supported}                                OPTIONAL,
    nonCriticalExtension                            UE-NR-Capability-v1800                                OPTIONAL
}

-- Late non-critical extensions from Rel-17 onwards:
UE-NR-Capability-v17b0 ::=           SEQUENCE {
    mac-Parameters-v17b0                     MAC-Parameters-v17b0                                         OPTIONAL,
    rf-Parameters-v17b0                      RF-Parameters-v17b0                                          OPTIONAL,
    ul-RRC-MaxCapaSegments-r17               ENUMERATED {supported}                                       OPTIONAL,
    nonCriticalExtension                     UE-NR-Capability-v17c0                                       OPTIONAL
}

UE-NR-Capability-v17c0 ::=               SEQUENCE {
    mac-Parameters-v17c0                     MAC-Parameters-v17c0                                         OPTIONAL,
    nonCriticalExtension                     UE-NR-Capability-v17d0                                       OPTIONAL
}

UE-NR-Capability-v17d0 ::=               SEQUENCE {
    featureSets-v17d0                        FeatureSets-v17d0                                            OPTIONAL,
    nonCriticalExtension                     SEQUENCE {}                                                  OPTIONAL
}

-- Regular non-critical Rel-18 extensions:
UE-NR-Capability-v1800 ::=               SEQUENCE {
    airToGroundNetwork-r18                   ENUMERATED {supported}                                       OPTIONAL,
    eRedCapParameters-r18                    ERedCapParameters-r18                                        OPTIONAL,
    ncr-Parameters-r18                       NCR-Parameters-r18                                           OPTIONAL,
    softSatelliteSwitchResyncNTN-r18         ENUMERATED {supported}                                       OPTIONAL,
    hardSatelliteSwitchResyncNTN-r18         ENUMERATED {supported}                                       OPTIONAL,
    mt-SDT-r18                               ENUMERATED {supported}                                       OPTIONAL,
    mt-SDT-NTN-r18                           ENUMERATED {supported}                                       OPTIONAL,
    inDeviceCoexIndAutonomousDenial-r18      ENUMERATED {supported}                                       OPTIONAL,
    inDeviceCoexIndFDM-r18                   ENUMERATED {supported}                                       OPTIONAL,
    inDeviceCoexIndTDM-r18                   ENUMERATED {supported}                                       OPTIONAL,
    musim-GapPriorityPreference-r18          ENUMERATED {supported}                                       OPTIONAL,
    musim-CapabilityRestriction-r18          ENUMERATED {supported}                                       OPTIONAL,
    dummy                                    ENUMERATED {supported}                                       OPTIONAL,
    ra-InsteadCG-SDT-r18                     ENUMERATED {supported}                                       OPTIONAL,
    resumeAfterSDT-Release-r18               ENUMERATED {supported}                                       OPTIONAL,
    ul-TrafficInfo-r18                       ENUMERATED {supported}                                       OPTIONAL,
    aerialParameters-r18                     AerialParameters-r18                                         OPTIONAL,
    --R4 40-2: beam steering
    ntn-VSAT-AntennaType-r18                 ENUMERATED {electronic, mechanical}                          OPTIONAL,
    --R4 40-1: VSAT UE type in NTN
    ntn-VSAT-MobilityType-r18                ENUMERATED {fixed, mobile}                                   OPTIONAL,
    ntn-Parameters-v1820                     NTN-Parameters-v1820                                         OPTIONAL,
    nonCriticalExtension                     UE-NR-Capability-v1830                                       OPTIONAL
}

UE-NR-Capability-v1830 ::=               SEQUENCE {
    sib19-Support-r18                        ENUMERATED {supported}                                       OPTIONAL,
    nonCriticalExtension                     UE-NR-Capability-v1860                                       OPTIONAL
}

UE-NR-Capability-v1860 ::=               SEQUENCE {
    ntn-CHO-OnlyLocationTimeTrigger-r18      ENUMERATED {supported}                                       OPTIONAL,
    nonCriticalExtension                     SEQUENCE{}                                                   OPTIONAL
}

UE-NR-CapabilityAddXDD-Mode ::=          SEQUENCE {
    phy-ParametersXDD-Diff                   Phy-ParametersXDD-Diff                                       OPTIONAL,
    mac-ParametersXDD-Diff                   MAC-ParametersXDD-Diff                                       OPTIONAL,
    measAndMobParametersXDD-Diff             MeasAndMobParametersXDD-Diff                                 OPTIONAL
}

UE-NR-CapabilityAddXDD-Mode-v1530 ::=    SEQUENCE {
    eutra-ParametersXDD-Diff                 EUTRA-ParametersXDD-Diff
}

UE-NR-CapabilityAddFRX-Mode ::=          SEQUENCE {
    phy-ParametersFRX-Diff                   Phy-ParametersFRX-Diff                                       OPTIONAL,
    measAndMobParametersFRX-Diff             MeasAndMobParametersFRX-Diff                                 OPTIONAL
}

UE-NR-CapabilityAddFRX-Mode-v1540 ::=    SEQUENCE {
    ims-ParametersFRX-Diff                   IMS-ParametersFRX-Diff                                       OPTIONAL
}

UE-NR-CapabilityAddFRX-Mode-v1610 ::=    SEQUENCE {
    powSav-ParametersFRX-Diff-r16            PowSav-ParametersFRX-Diff-r16                                OPTIONAL,
    mac-ParametersFRX-Diff-r16               MAC-ParametersFRX-Diff-r16                                   OPTIONAL
}

BAP-Parameters-r16 ::=                   SEQUENCE {
    flowControlBH-RLC-ChannelBased-r16       ENUMERATED {supported}                                       OPTIONAL,
    flowControlRouting-ID-Based-r16          ENUMERATED {supported}                                       OPTIONAL
}

BAP-Parameters-v1700 ::=                 SEQUENCE {
    bapHeaderRewriting-Rerouting-r17         ENUMERATED {supported}                                       OPTIONAL,
    bapHeaderRewriting-Routing-r17           ENUMERATED {supported}                                       OPTIONAL
}

MBS-Parameters-r17 ::=                   SEQUENCE {
    maxMRB-Add-r17                           INTEGER (1..16)                                              OPTIONAL
}

-- TAG-UE-NR-CAPABILITY-STOP
-- ASN1STOP





–	UE-RadioPagingInfo
The IE UE-RadioPagingInfo contains UE capability information needed for paging.
UE-RadioPagingInfo information element
-- ASN1START
-- TAG-UE-RADIOPAGINGINFO-START

UE-RadioPagingInfo-r17 ::=            SEQUENCE {
    -- R1 29-1: Paging enhancement
    pei-SubgroupingSupportBandList-r17    SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxBands)) OF FreqBandIndicatorNR    OPTIONAL,
    ...
}

-- TAG-UE-RADIOPAGINGINFO-STOP
-- ASN1STOP

6.3.4	Other information elements
–	AbsoluteTimeInfo
The IE AbsoluteTimeInfo indicates an absolute time in a format YY-MM-DD HH:MM:SS and using BCD encoding. The first/ leftmost bit of the bit string contains the most significant bit of the most significant digit of the year and so on.
AbsoluteTimeInfo information element
-- ASN1START
-- TAG-ABSOLUTETIMEINFO-START

AbsoluteTimeInfo-r16 ::= BIT STRING (SIZE (48))

-- TAG-ABSOLUTETIMEINFO-STOP
-- ASN1STOP

–	AppLayerIdleInactiveConfig
The IE AppLayerIdleInactiveConfig indicates parameters specific to application layer measurements applicable to RRC_IDLE and RRC_INACTIVE. The configured application layer measurement is also applicable to RRC_CONNECTED.
AppLayerIdleInactiveConfig information element
-- ASN1START
-- TAG-APPLAYERIDLEINACTIVECONFIG-START

AppLayerIdleInactiveConfig-r18 ::=   SEQUENCE {
    measConfigAppLayerId-r18             MeasConfigAppLayerId-r17,
    serviceType-r18                      ENUMERATED {streaming, mtsi, vr, spare5, spare4, spare3, spare2, spare1}  OPTIONAL, -- Need M
    appLayerMeasPriority-r18             INTEGER (1..16)                                                           OPTIONAL, -- Need M
    qoe-Reference-r18                    OCTET STRING (SIZE (6))                                                   OPTIONAL, -- Need M
    qoe-MeasurementType-r18              ENUMERATED {sbased, mbased}                                               OPTIONAL, -- Need M
    qoe-AreaScope-r18                    Qoe-AreaScope-r18                                                         OPTIONAL, -- Need M
    mce-Id-r18                           OCTET STRING (SIZE (1))                                                   OPTIONAL, -- Need M
    availableRAN-VisibleMetrics-r18      AvailableRAN-VisibleMetrics-r18                                           OPTIONAL, -- Need M
    ...
}

Qoe-AreaScope-r18 ::=                CHOICE {
    cellGlobalIdList                     CellGlobalIdList-r16,
    trackingAreaCodeList                 TrackingAreaCodeList-r16,
    trackingAreaIdentityList             TrackingAreaIdentityList-r16,
    plmn-IdentityList                    PLMN-IdentityList2-r16,
    ...
}

AvailableRAN-VisibleMetrics-r18 ::=  SEQUENCE {
    appLayerBufferLevelList-r18          ENUMERATED {true}                                                         OPTIONAL, -- Need M
    playoutDelayForMediaStartup-r18      ENUMERATED {true}                                                         OPTIONAL, -- Need M
    ...
}

-- TAG-APPLAYERIDLEINACTIVECONFIG-STOP
-- ASN1STOP



–	AppLayerMeasConfig
The IE AppLayerMeasConfig indicates configuration of application layer measurements.
AppLayerMeasConfig information element
-- ASN1START
-- TAG-APPLAYERMEASCONFIG-START

AppLayerMeasConfig-r17 ::=           SEQUENCE {
    measConfigAppLayerToAddModList-r17   SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxNrofAppLayerMeas-r17)) OF MeasConfigAppLayer-r17     OPTIONAL, -- Need N
    measConfigAppLayerToReleaseList-r17  SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxNrofAppLayerMeas-r17)) OF MeasConfigAppLayerId-r17   OPTIONAL, -- Need N
    rrc-SegAllowedSRB4-r17               ENUMERATED {enabled}                                                       OPTIONAL, -- Need R
    ...,
    [[
    rrc-SegAllowedSRB5-r18               ENUMERATED {enabled}                                                       OPTIONAL, -- Need R
    idleInactiveReportAllowed-r18        ENUMERATED {enabled}                                                       OPTIONAL  -- Need R
    ]]
}

MeasConfigAppLayer-r17 ::=           SEQUENCE {
    measConfigAppLayerId-r17             MeasConfigAppLayerId-r17,
    measConfigAppLayerContainer-r17      OCTET STRING (SIZE (1..8000))                                              OPTIONAL, -- Need N
    serviceType-r17                      ENUMERATED {streaming, mtsi, vr, spare5, spare4, spare3, spare2, spare1}   OPTIONAL, -- Need M
    pauseReporting-r17                   BOOLEAN                                                                    OPTIONAL, -- Need M
    transmissionOfSessionStartStop-r17   BOOLEAN                                                                    OPTIONAL, -- Need M
    ran-VisibleParameters-r17            SetupRelease {RAN-VisibleParameters-r17}                                   OPTIONAL, -- Cond ServiceType
    ...,
    [[
    reportingSRB-r18                     ENUMERATED {srb4, srb5}                                                    OPTIONAL, -- Cond QoENRDC
    appLayerMeasPriority-r18             INTEGER (1..16)                                                            OPTIONAL, -- Need M
    appLayerIdleInactiveConfig-r18       SetupRelease {AppLayerIdleInactiveConfig-r18}                              OPTIONAL  -- Need M
    ]]
}

RAN-VisibleParameters-r17 ::=        SEQUENCE {
    ran-VisiblePeriodicity-r17           ENUMERATED {ms120, ms240, ms480, ms640, ms1024}                            OPTIONAL, -- Need S
    numberOfBufferLevelEntries-r17       INTEGER (1..8)                                                             OPTIONAL, -- Need R
    reportPlayoutDelayForMediaStartup-r17 BOOLEAN                                                                   OPTIONAL, -- Need M
    ...,
    [[
    ran-VisibleReportingSRB-r18          ENUMERATED {srb4, srb5}                                                    OPTIONAL  -- Cond QoENRDC
    ]]
}

-- TAG-APPLAYERMEASCONFIG-STOP
-- ASN1STOP








–	AreaConfiguration
The AreaConfiguration indicates area for which UE is requested to perform measurement logging. If not configured, measurement logging is not restricted to specific cells or tracking areas but applies as long as the RPLMN is contained in plmn-IdentityList stored in VarLogMeasReport or the registered SNPN identity is included in snpn-ConfigID-List stored in VarLogMeasReport.
AreaConfiguration information element
-- ASN1START
-- TAG-AREACONFIGURATION-START

AreaConfiguration-r16 ::=        SEQUENCE {
    areaConfig-r16                   AreaConfig-r16,
    interFreqTargetList-r16          SEQUENCE(SIZE (1..maxFreq)) OF InterFreqTargetInfo-r16              OPTIONAL  -- Need R
}

AreaConfiguration-r17 ::=        SEQUENCE {
    areaConfig-r17                   AreaConfig-r16                                                      OPTIONAL, -- Need R
    interFreqTargetList-r17          SEQUENCE(SIZE (1..maxFreq)) OF InterFreqTargetInfo-r16              OPTIONAL  -- Need R
}

AreaConfiguration-v1800 ::=      CHOICE {
    cag-ConfigList-r18               CAG-ConfigList-r18,
    snpn-ConfigList-r18              SNPN-ConfigList-r18
}

AreaConfig-r16 ::=               CHOICE {
    cellGlobalIdList-r16             CellGlobalIdList-r16,
    trackingAreaCodeList-r16         TrackingAreaCodeList-r16,
    trackingAreaIdentityList-r16     TrackingAreaIdentityList-r16
}

InterFreqTargetInfo-r16    ::=   SEQUENCE {
    dl-CarrierFreq-r16               ARFCN-ValueNR,
    cellList-r16                     SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..32)) OF  PhysCellId                              OPTIONAL  -- Need R
}

CellGlobalIdList-r16 ::=         SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..32)) OF CGI-Info-Logging-r16

TrackingAreaCodeList-r16 ::=     SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..8)) OF TrackingAreaCode

TrackingAreaIdentityList-r16 ::= SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..8)) OF TrackingAreaIdentity-r16

TrackingAreaIdentity-r16 ::=     SEQUENCE {
    plmn-Identity-r16                PLMN-Identity,
    trackingAreaCode-r16             TrackingAreaCode
}
CAG-ConfigList-r18 ::=           SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxNPN-r16)) OF CAG-Config-r18

CAG-Config-r18 ::=               SEQUENCE {
    plmn-Identity-r18                PLMN-Identity,
    cag-IdentityList-r18             SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxNPN-r16)) OF BIT STRING (SIZE (32))
}

SNPN-ConfigList-r18 ::=          CHOICE {
    snpn-ConfigCellIdList-r18        SNPN-ConfigCellIdList-r18,
    snpn-ConfigTAI-List-r18          SNPN-ConfigTAI-List-r18,
    snpn-ConfigID-List-r18           SNPN-ConfigID-List-r18
}

SNPN-ConfigCellIdList-r18 ::=    SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxSNPN-ConfigCellId-r18)) OF SNPN-ConfigCellId-r18

SNPN-ConfigCellId-r18 ::=        SEQUENCE {
    cgi-Identity-r18                 CGI-Info-Logging-r16,
    nid-IdentityList-r18             SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxNPN-r16)) OF NID-r16
}

SNPN-ConfigTAI-List-r18 ::=      SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxSNPN-ConfigTAI-r18)) OF SNPN-ConfigTAI-r18

SNPN-ConfigTAI-r18 ::=           SEQUENCE {
    tai-Identity-r18                 TrackingAreaIdentity-r16,
    nid-IdentityList-r18             SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxNPN-r16)) OF NID-r16
}

SNPN-ConfigID-List-r18 ::=       SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxSNPN-ConfigID-r18)) OF SNPN-ConfigID-r18

SNPN-ConfigID-r18 ::=            SEQUENCE {
    plmn-Identity-r18                PLMN-Identity,
    nid-IdentityList-r18             SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxNPN-r16)) OF NID-r16
}

-- TAG-AREACONFIGURATION-STOP
-- ASN1STOP



–	BT-NameList
The IE BT-NameList is used to indicate the names of the Bluetooth beacon which the UE is configured to measure.
BT-NameList information element
-- ASN1START
-- TAG-BTNAMELIST-START

BT-NameList-r16 ::=                SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxBT-Name-r16)) OF BT-Name-r16

BT-Name-r16 ::=                    OCTET STRING (SIZE (1..248))

-- TAG-BTNAMELIST-STOP
-- ASN1STOP



–	DedicatedInfoF1c
The IE DedicatedInfoF1c is used to transfer IAB-DU specific F1-C related information between the network and the IAB node. The carried information consists of F1AP message encapsulated in SCTP/IP or F1-C related (SCTP)/IP packet, see TS 38.472 [64]. The RRC layer is transparent for this information.
DedicatedInfoF1c information element
-- ASN1START
-- TAG-DEDICATEDINFOF1C-START

DedicatedInfoF1c-r17 ::=        OCTET STRING

-- TAG-DEDICATEDINFOF1C-STOP
-- ASN1STOP

–	EUTRA-AllowedMeasBandwidth
The IE EUTRA-AllowedMeasBandwidth is used to indicate the maximum allowed measurement bandwidth on a carrier frequency as defined by the parameter Transmission Bandwidth Configuration "NRB" in TS 36.104 [33]. The values mbw6, mbw15, mbw25, mbw50, mbw75, mbw100 indicate 6, 15, 25, 50, 75 and 100 resource blocks, respectively.
EUTRA-AllowedMeasBandwidth information element
-- ASN1START
-- TAG-EUTRA-ALLOWEDMEASBANDWIDTH-START

EUTRA-AllowedMeasBandwidth ::=              ENUMERATED {mbw6, mbw15, mbw25, mbw50, mbw75, mbw100}

-- TAG-EUTRA-ALLOWEDMEASBANDWIDTH-STOP
-- ASN1STOP

–	EUTRA-MBSFN-SubframeConfigList
The IE EUTRA-MBSFN-SubframeConfigList is used to define an E-UTRA MBSFN subframe pattern (for the purpose of NR rate matching).
EUTRA-MBSFN-SubframeConfigList information element
-- ASN1START
-- TAG-EUTRA-MBSFN-SUBFRAMECONFIGLIST-START

EUTRA-MBSFN-SubframeConfigList ::= SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxMBSFN-Allocations)) OF EUTRA-MBSFN-SubframeConfig

EUTRA-MBSFN-SubframeConfig ::=      SEQUENCE {
    radioframeAllocationPeriod          ENUMERATED {n1, n2, n4, n8, n16, n32},
    radioframeAllocationOffset          INTEGER (0..7),
    subframeAllocation1                 CHOICE {
        oneFrame                            BIT STRING (SIZE(6)),
        fourFrames                          BIT STRING (SIZE(24))
    },
    subframeAllocation2                 CHOICE {
        oneFrame                            BIT STRING (SIZE(2)),
        fourFrames                          BIT STRING (SIZE(8))
    }                                                                                                       OPTIONAL,   -- Need R
    ...
}

-- TAG-EUTRA-MBSFN-SUBFRAMECONFIGLIST-STOP
-- ASN1STOP



–	EUTRA-MultiBandInfoList
The IE EUTRA-MultiBandInfoList indicates the list of frequency bands in addition to the band represented by CarrierFreq for which cell reselection parameters are common, and a list of additionalPmax and additionalSpectrumEmission.
EUTRA-MultiBandInfoList information element
-- ASN1START
-- TAG-EUTRA-MULTIBANDINFOLIST-START

EUTRA-MultiBandInfoList ::=     SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxMultiBands)) OF EUTRA-MultiBandInfo

EUTRA-MultiBandInfo ::=         SEQUENCE {
    eutra-FreqBandIndicator         FreqBandIndicatorEUTRA,
    eutra-NS-PmaxList               EUTRA-NS-PmaxList                           OPTIONAL    -- Need R
}

-- TAG-EUTRA-MULTIBANDINFOLIST-STOP
-- ASN1STOP

–	EUTRA-MultiBandInfoListAerial
The IE EUTRA-MultiBandInfoListAerial indicates the list of frequency bands for aerial UE in addition to the band represented by CarrierFreq for which cell reselection parameters are common, and a list of additionalPmax and additionalSpectrumEmission.
EUTRA-MultiBandInfoListAerial information element
-- ASN1START
-- TAG-EUTRA-MULTIBANDINFOLISTAERIAL-START

EUTRA-MultiBandInfoListAerial-r18 ::=     SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxMultiBands)) OF EUTRA-MultiBandInfoAerial-r18

EUTRA-MultiBandInfoAerial-r18 ::=         SEQUENCE {
    eutra-FreqBandIndicator-r18               FreqBandIndicatorEUTRA,
    eutra-NS-PmaxListAerial-r18               EUTRA-NS-PmaxList                 OPTIONAL    -- Need R
}

-- TAG-EUTRA-MULTIBANDINFOLISTAERIAL-STOP
-- ASN1STOP

–	EUTRA-NS-PmaxList
The IE EUTRA-NS-PmaxList concerns a list of additionalPmax and additionalSpectrumEmission, as defined in TS 36.101 [22], clause 6, for a given frequency band.
EUTRA-NS-PmaxList information element
-- ASN1START
-- TAG-EUTRA-NS-PMAXLIST-START

EUTRA-NS-PmaxList ::=               SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxEUTRA-NS-Pmax)) OF EUTRA-NS-PmaxValue

EUTRA-NS-PmaxValue ::=              SEQUENCE {
    additionalPmax                      INTEGER (-30..33)                       OPTIONAL,   -- Need R
    additionalSpectrumEmission          INTEGER (1..288)                        OPTIONAL    -- Need R
}

-- TAG-EUTRA-NS-PMAXLIST-STOP
-- ASN1STOP

–	EUTRA-PhysCellId
The IE EUTRA-PhysCellId is used to indicate the physical layer identity of the cell, as defined in TS 36.211 [31].
EUTRA-PhysCellId information element
-- ASN1START
-- TAG-EUTRA-PHYSCELLID-START

EUTRA-PhysCellId ::=                        INTEGER (0..503)

-- TAG-EUTRA-PHYSCELLID-STOP
-- ASN1STOP

–	EUTRA-PhysCellIdRange
The IE EUTRA-PhysCellIdRange is used to encode either a single or a range of physical cell identities. The range is encoded by using a start value and by indicating the number of consecutive physical cell identities (including start) in the range. For fields comprising multiple occurrences of EUTRA-PhysCellIdRange, NW may configure overlapping ranges of physical cell identities.
EUTRA-PhysCellIdRange information element
-- ASN1START
-- TAG-EUTRA-PHYSCELLIDRANGE-START

EUTRA-PhysCellIdRange ::=       SEQUENCE {
    start                           EUTRA-PhysCellId,
    range                           ENUMERATED {n4, n8, n12, n16, n24, n32, n48, n64, n84, n96,
                                                n128, n168, n252, n504, spare2, spare1}                         OPTIONAL    -- Need N
}

-- TAG-EUTRA-PHYSCELLIDRANGE-STOP
-- ASN1STOP

–	EUTRA-PresenceAntennaPort1
The IE EUTRA-PresenceAntennaPort1 is used to indicate whether all the neighbouring cells use Antenna Port 1. When set to true, the UE may assume that at least two cell-specific antenna ports are used in all neighbouring cells.
EUTRA-PresenceAntennaPort1 information element
-- ASN1START
-- TAG-EUTRA-PRESENCEANTENNAPORT1-START

EUTRA-PresenceAntennaPort1 ::=              BOOLEAN

-- TAG-EUTRA-PRESENCEANTENNAPORT1-STOP
-- ASN1STOP

–	EUTRA-Q-OffsetRange
The IE EUTRA-Q-OffsetRange is used to indicate a cell, or frequency specific offset to be applied when evaluating triggering conditions for measurement reporting. The value in dB. Value dB-24 corresponds to -24 dB, value dB-22 corresponds to -22 dB and so on.
EUTRA-Q-OffsetRange information element
-- ASN1START
-- TAG-EUTRA-Q-OFFSETRANGE-START

EUTRA-Q-OffsetRange ::=                     ENUMERATED {
                                                dB-24, dB-22, dB-20, dB-18, dB-16, dB-14,
                                                dB-12, dB-10, dB-8, dB-6, dB-5, dB-4, dB-3,
                                                dB-2, dB-1, dB0, dB1, dB2, dB3, dB4, dB5,
                                                dB6, dB8, dB10, dB12, dB14, dB16, dB18,
                                                dB20, dB22, dB24}

-- TAG-EUTRA-Q-OFFSETRANGE-STOP
-- ASN1STOP

–	IAB-IP-Address
The IE IAB-IP-Address is used to indicate the IP address/prefix.
IAB-IP-Address information element
-- ASN1START
-- TAG-IABIPADDRESS-START

IAB-IP-Address-r16 ::=  CHOICE {
    iPv4-Address-r16                BIT STRING (SIZE(32)),
    iPv6-Address-r16                BIT STRING (SIZE(128)),
    iPv6-Prefix-r16                 BIT STRING (SIZE(64)),
    ...
}

-- TAG-IABIPADDRESS-STOP
-- ASN1STOP



–	IAB-IP-AddressIndex
The IE IAB-IP-AddressIndex is used to identify a configuration of an IP address.
IAB-IP-AddressIndex information element
-- ASN1START
-- TAG-IABIPADDRESSINDEX-START

IAB-IP-AddressIndex-r16 ::= INTEGER (1..maxIAB-IP-Address-r16)

-- TAG-IABIPADDRESSINDEX-STOP
-- ASN1STOP

–	IAB-IP-Usage
The IE IAB-IP-Usage is used to indicate the usage of the assigned IP address/prefix.
IAB-IP-Usage information element
-- ASN1START
-- TAG-IAB-IP-USAGE-START

IAB-IP-Usage-r16 ::= ENUMERATED {f1-C, f1-U, non-F1, spare}

-- TAG-IAB-IP-USAGE-STOP
-- ASN1STOP

–	LoggingDuration
The LoggingDuration indicates the duration for which UE is requested to perform measurement logging. Value min10 corresponds to 10 minutes, value min20 corresponds to 20 minutes and so on.
LoggingDuration information element
-- ASN1START
-- TAG-LOGGINGDURATION-START

LoggingDuration-r16 ::=   ENUMERATED {
                              min10, min20, min40, min60, min90, min120, spare2, spare1}

-- TAG-LOGGINGDURATION-STOP
-- ASN1STOP

–	LoggingInterval
The LoggingInterval indicates the periodicity for logging measurement results. Value ms1280 corresponds to 1.28s, value ms2560 corresponds to 2.56s and so on. Value infinity means it is equal to the configured value of the LoggingDuration IE.
LoggingInterval information element
-- ASN1START
-- TAG-LOGGINGINTERVAL-START

LoggingInterval-r16 ::=   ENUMERATED {
                              ms320, ms640, ms1280, ms2560, ms5120, ms10240, ms20480,
                              ms30720, ms40960, ms61440 , infinity}

-- TAG-LOGGINGINTERVAL-STOP
-- ASN1STOP

–	LogMeasResultListBT
The IE LogMeasResultListBT covers measured results for Bluetooth.
LogMeasResultListBT information element
-- ASN1START
-- TAG-LOGMEASRESULTLISTBT-START

LogMeasResultListBT-r16 ::= SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxBT-IdReport-r16)) OF LogMeasResultBT-r16

LogMeasResultBT-r16 ::= SEQUENCE {
    bt-Addr-r16             BIT STRING (SIZE (48)),
    rssi-BT-r16             INTEGER (-128..127)        OPTIONAL,
    ...
}

-- TAG-LOGMEASRESULTLISTBT-STOP
-- ASN1STOP



–	LogMeasResultListWLAN
The IE LogMeasResultListWLAN covers measured results for WLAN.
LogMeasResultListWLAN information element
-- ASN1START
-- TAG-LOGMEASRESULTLISTWLAN-START

LogMeasResultListWLAN-r16 ::=    SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxWLAN-Id-Report-r16)) OF LogMeasResultWLAN-r16

LogMeasResultWLAN-r16 ::=        SEQUENCE {
    wlan-Identifiers-r16             WLAN-Identifiers-r16,
    rssiWLAN-r16                     WLAN-RSSI-Range-r16          OPTIONAL,
    rtt-WLAN-r16                     WLAN-RTT-r16                 OPTIONAL,
    ...
}

WLAN-Identifiers-r16 ::=         SEQUENCE {
    ssid-r16                         OCTET STRING (SIZE (1..32))  OPTIONAL,
    bssid-r16                        OCTET STRING (SIZE (6))      OPTIONAL,
    hessid-r16                       OCTET STRING (SIZE (6))      OPTIONAL,
    ...
}

WLAN-RSSI-Range-r16 ::= INTEGER(0..141)

WLAN-RTT-r16 ::=                 SEQUENCE {
    rttValue-r16                     INTEGER (0..16777215),
    rttUnits-r16                     ENUMERATED {
                                         microseconds,
                                         hundredsofnanoseconds,
                                         tensofnanoseconds,
                                         nanoseconds,
                                         tenthsofnanoseconds,
                                         ...},
    rttAccuracy-r16                  INTEGER (0..255)             OPTIONAL,
    ...
}

-- TAG-LOGMEASRESULTLISTWLAN-STOP
-- ASN1STOP



–	MeasConfigAppLayerId
The IE MeasConfigAppLayerId identifies the application layer measurement.
MeasConfigAppLayerId information element
-- ASN1START
-- TAG-MEASCONFIGAPPLAYERID-START

MeasConfigAppLayerId-r17 ::= INTEGER (0..maxNrofAppLayerMeas-1-r17)

-- TAG-MEASCONFIGAPPLAYERID-STOP
-- ASN1STOP

–	OtherConfig
The IE OtherConfig contains configuration related to miscellaneous other configurations.
OtherConfig information element
-- ASN1START
-- TAG-OTHERCONFIG-START

OtherConfig ::=                 SEQUENCE {
    delayBudgetReportingConfig  CHOICE{
        release                 NULL,
        setup                   SEQUENCE{
            delayBudgetReportingProhibitTimer   ENUMERATED {s0, s0dot4, s0dot8, s1dot6, s3, s6, s12, s30}
        }
    }                                                                                                     OPTIONAL        -- Need M
}

OtherConfig-v1540 ::=           SEQUENCE {
    overheatingAssistanceConfig     SetupRelease {OverheatingAssistanceConfig}                            OPTIONAL, -- Need M
    ...
}

OtherConfig-v1610 ::=                   SEQUENCE {
    idc-AssistanceConfig-r16                SetupRelease {IDC-AssistanceConfig-r16}                       OPTIONAL, -- Need M
    drx-PreferenceConfig-r16                SetupRelease {DRX-PreferenceConfig-r16}                       OPTIONAL, -- Need M
    maxBW-PreferenceConfig-r16              SetupRelease {MaxBW-PreferenceConfig-r16}                     OPTIONAL, -- Need M
    maxCC-PreferenceConfig-r16              SetupRelease {MaxCC-PreferenceConfig-r16}                     OPTIONAL, -- Need M
    maxMIMO-LayerPreferenceConfig-r16       SetupRelease {MaxMIMO-LayerPreferenceConfig-r16}              OPTIONAL, -- Need M
    minSchedulingOffsetPreferenceConfig-r16 SetupRelease {MinSchedulingOffsetPreferenceConfig-r16}        OPTIONAL, -- Need M
    releasePreferenceConfig-r16             SetupRelease {ReleasePreferenceConfig-r16}                    OPTIONAL, -- Need M
    referenceTimePreferenceReporting-r16    ENUMERATED {true}                                             OPTIONAL, -- Need R
    btNameList-r16                          SetupRelease {BT-NameList-r16}                                OPTIONAL, -- Need M
    wlanNameList-r16                        SetupRelease {WLAN-NameList-r16}                              OPTIONAL, -- Need M
    sensorNameList-r16                      SetupRelease {Sensor-NameList-r16}                            OPTIONAL, -- Need M
    obtainCommonLocation-r16                ENUMERATED {true}                                             OPTIONAL, -- Need R
    sl-AssistanceConfigNR-r16               ENUMERATED{true}                                              OPTIONAL  -- Need R
}

OtherConfig-v1700 ::=                   SEQUENCE {
    ul-GapFR2-PreferenceConfig-r17          ENUMERATED {true}                                             OPTIONAL, -- Need R
    musim-GapAssistanceConfig-r17           SetupRelease {MUSIM-GapAssistanceConfig-r17}                  OPTIONAL, -- Need M
    musim-LeaveAssistanceConfig-r17         SetupRelease {MUSIM-LeaveAssistanceConfig-r17}                OPTIONAL, -- Need M
    successHO-Config-r17                    SetupRelease {SuccessHO-Config-r17}                           OPTIONAL, -- Need M
    maxBW-PreferenceConfigFR2-2-r17         ENUMERATED {true}                                             OPTIONAL, -- Cond maxBW
    maxMIMO-LayerPreferenceConfigFR2-2-r17  ENUMERATED {true}                                             OPTIONAL, -- Cond maxMIMO
    minSchedulingOffsetPreferenceConfigExt-r17  ENUMERATED {true}                                         OPTIONAL, -- Cond minOffset
    rlm-RelaxationReportingConfig-r17       SetupRelease {RLM-RelaxationReportingConfig-r17}              OPTIONAL, -- Need M
    bfd-RelaxationReportingConfig-r17       SetupRelease {BFD-RelaxationReportingConfig-r17}              OPTIONAL, -- Need M
    scg-DeactivationPreferenceConfig-r17    SetupRelease {SCG-DeactivationPreferenceConfig-r17}           OPTIONAL, -- Cond SCG
    rrm-MeasRelaxationReportingConfig-r17   SetupRelease {RRM-MeasRelaxationReportingConfig-r17}          OPTIONAL, -- Need M
    propDelayDiffReportConfig-r17           SetupRelease {PropDelayDiffReportConfig-r17}                  OPTIONAL  -- Need M
}

OtherConfig-v1800 ::=                   SEQUENCE {
    idc-AssistanceConfig-v1800              SetupRelease {IDC-AssistanceConfig-v1800}                     OPTIONAL, -- Need M
    multiRx-PreferenceReportingConfigFR2-r18 SetupRelease {MultiRx-PreferenceReportingConfigFR2-r18}      OPTIONAL, -- Need M
    aerial-FlightPathAvailabilityConfig-r18 ENUMERATED {true}                                             OPTIONAL, -- Need R
    ul-TrafficInfoReportingConfig-r18       SetupRelease {UL-TrafficInfoReportingConfig-r18}              OPTIONAL, -- Need M
    n3c-RelayUE-InfoReportConfig-r18        ENUMERATED {true}                                             OPTIONAL, -- Need R
    successPSCell-Config-r18                SetupRelease {SuccessPSCell-Config-r18}                       OPTIONAL, -- Need M
    sn-InitiatedPSCellChange-r18            ENUMERATED {true}                                             OPTIONAL, -- Need R
    musim-GapPriorityAssistanceConfig-r18   ENUMERATED {true}                                          OPTIONAL, -- Cond musimGapConfig
    musim-CapabilityRestrictionConfig-r18   SetupRelease {MUSIM-CapabilityRestrictionConfig-r18}          OPTIONAL  -- Need M
}

OtherConfig-v1830 ::=                   SEQUENCE {
    sl-PRS-AssistanceConfigNR-r18           ENUMERATED{true}                                              OPTIONAL  -- Need R
}

IDC-AssistanceConfig-v1800 ::=          SEQUENCE {
    idc-FDM-AssistanceConfig-r18            SetupRelease {IDC-FDM-AssistanceConfig-r18}                   OPTIONAL, -- Need M
    idc-TDM-AssistanceConfig-r18            ENUMERATED {setup}                                            OPTIONAL  -- Cond FDM
}

MultiRx-PreferenceReportingConfigFR2-r18 ::= SEQUENCE {
    multiRx-PreferenceReportingConfigFR2ProhibitTimer-r18  ENUMERATED {
                                                              s0, s0dot5, s1, s2, s3, s4, s5, s6, s7,
                                                              s8, s9, s10, s20, s30, spare2, spare1}
}

CandidateServingFreqListNR-r16 ::= SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxFreqIDC-r16)) OF ARFCN-ValueNR

MUSIM-GapAssistanceConfig-r17 ::= SEQUENCE {
    musim-GapProhibitTimer-r17        ENUMERATED {s0, s0dot1, s0dot2, s0dot3, s0dot4, s0dot5, s1, s2, s3, s4, s5, s6, s7, s8, s9, s10}
}

MUSIM-LeaveAssistanceConfig-r17 ::=     SEQUENCE {
    musim-LeaveWithoutResponseTimer-r17     ENUMERATED {ms10, ms20, ms40, ms60, ms80, ms100, spare2, spare1}
}

MUSIM-CapabilityRestrictionConfig-r18 ::= SEQUENCE {
    musim-CandidateBandList-r18               MUSIM-CandidateBandList-r18                                           OPTIONAL, -- Need R
    musim-WaitTimer-r18                       ENUMERATED {ms10, ms20, ms40, ms60, ms80, ms100, spare2, spare1},
    musim-ProhibitTimer-r18                   ENUMERATED {s0, s0dot1, s0dot2, s0dot3, s0dot4, s0dot5, s1, s2, s3, s4, s5, s6, s7, s8,
                                                          s9, s10}
}

MUSIM-CandidateBandList-r18::= SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxCandidateBandIndex-r18)) OF FreqBandIndicatorNR

SuccessHO-Config-r17 ::=                SEQUENCE {
    thresholdPercentageT304-r17             ENUMERATED {p40, p60, p80, spare5, spare4, spare3, spare2, spare1}      OPTIONAL, --Need R
    thresholdPercentageT310-r17             ENUMERATED {p40, p60, p80, spare5, spare4, spare3, spare2, spare1}      OPTIONAL, --Need R
    thresholdPercentageT312-r17             ENUMERATED {p20, p40, p60, p80, spare4, spare3, spare2, spare1}         OPTIONAL, --Need R
    sourceDAPS-FailureReporting-r17         ENUMERATED {true}                                                       OPTIONAL, --Need R
    ...
}

SuccessPSCell-Config-r18 ::=            SEQUENCE {
    thresholdPercentageT304-SCG-r18         ENUMERATED {p40, p60, p80, spare5, spare4, spare3, spare2, spare1}      OPTIONAL, --Need R
    thresholdPercentageT310-SCG-r18         ENUMERATED {p40, p60, p80, spare5, spare4, spare3, spare2, spare1}      OPTIONAL, --Need R
    thresholdPercentageT312-SCG-r18         ENUMERATED {p20, p40, p60, p80, spare4, spare3, spare2, spare1}         OPTIONAL, --Need R
    ...
}


OverheatingAssistanceConfig ::= SEQUENCE {
    overheatingIndicationProhibitTimer    ENUMERATED {s0, s0dot5, s1, s2, s5, s10, s20, s30,
                                          s60, s90, s120, s300, s600, spare3, spare2, spare1}
}

IDC-AssistanceConfig-r16 ::=    SEQUENCE {
    candidateServingFreqListNR-r16  CandidateServingFreqListNR-r16                     OPTIONAL, -- Need R
    ...
}

DRX-PreferenceConfig-r16 ::=          SEQUENCE {
    drx-PreferenceProhibitTimer-r16       ENUMERATED {
                                              s0, s0dot5, s1, s2, s3, s4, s5, s6, s7,
                                              s8, s9, s10, s20, s30, spare2, spare1}
}

MaxBW-PreferenceConfig-r16 ::=        SEQUENCE {
    maxBW-PreferenceProhibitTimer-r16     ENUMERATED {
                                              s0, s0dot5, s1, s2, s3, s4, s5, s6, s7,
                                              s8, s9, s10, s20, s30, spare2, spare1}
}

MaxCC-PreferenceConfig-r16 ::=        SEQUENCE {
    maxCC-PreferenceProhibitTimer-r16     ENUMERATED {
                                              s0, s0dot5, s1, s2, s3, s4, s5, s6, s7,
                                              s8, s9, s10, s20, s30, spare2, spare1}
}

MaxMIMO-LayerPreferenceConfig-r16 ::= SEQUENCE {
    maxMIMO-LayerPreferenceProhibitTimer-r16 ENUMERATED {
                                                 s0, s0dot5, s1, s2, s3, s4, s5, s6, s7,
                                                 s8, s9, s10, s20, s30, spare2, spare1}
}

MinSchedulingOffsetPreferenceConfig-r16 ::=   SEQUENCE {
    minSchedulingOffsetPreferenceProhibitTimer-r16 ENUMERATED {
                                                       s0, s0dot5, s1, s2, s3, s4, s5, s6, s7,
                                                       s8, s9, s10, s20, s30, spare2, spare1}
}

ReleasePreferenceConfig-r16 ::=       SEQUENCE {
    releasePreferenceProhibitTimer-r16    ENUMERATED {
                                              s0, s0dot5, s1, s2, s3, s4, s5, s6, s7,
                                              s8, s9, s10, s20, s30, infinity, spare1},
    connectedReporting                    ENUMERATED {true}                                               OPTIONAL  -- Need R
}

RLM-RelaxationReportingConfig-r17 ::= SEQUENCE {
    rlm-RelaxtionReportingProhibitTimer   ENUMERATED {s0, s0dot5, s1, s2, s5, s10, s20, s30,
                                          s60, s90, s120, s300, s600, infinity, spare2, spare1}
}

BFD-RelaxationReportingConfig-r17 ::= SEQUENCE {
    bfd-RelaxtionReportingProhibitTimer   ENUMERATED {s0, s0dot5, s1, s2, s5, s10, s20, s30,
                                          s60, s90, s120, s300, s600, infinity, spare2, spare1}
}

SCG-DeactivationPreferenceConfig-r17 ::=       SEQUENCE {
    scg-DeactivationPreferenceProhibitTimer-r17    ENUMERATED {
                                                   s0, s1, s2, s4, s8, s10, s15, s30,
                                                   s60, s120, s180, s240, s300, s600, s900, s1800}
}

RRM-MeasRelaxationReportingConfig-r17 ::= SEQUENCE {
    s-SearchDeltaP-Stationary-r17             ENUMERATED {dB2, dB3, dB6, dB9, dB12, dB15, spare2, spare1},
    t-SearchDeltaP-Stationary-r17             ENUMERATED {s5, s10, s20, s30, s60, s120, s180, s240, s300, spare7, spare6, spare5,
                                                          spare4, spare3, spare2, spare1}
}

PropDelayDiffReportConfig-r17 ::= SEQUENCE {
    threshPropDelayDiff-r17           ENUMERATED {ms0dot5, ms1, ms2, ms3, ms4, ms5, ms6 ,ms7, ms8, ms9, ms10, spare5,
                                                          spare4, spare3, spare2, spare1}                OPTIONAL,   -- Need M
    neighCellInfoList-r17             SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxCellNTN-r17)) OF NeighbourCellInfo-r17         OPTIONAL    -- Need M
}

NeighbourCellInfo-r17  ::= SEQUENCE {
epochTime-r17                  EpochTime-r17,
ephemerisInfo-r17              EphemerisInfo-r17
}

IDC-FDM-AssistanceConfig-r18 ::=        SEQUENCE {
    candidateServingFreqRangeListNR-r18     CandidateServingFreqRangeListNR-r18                     OPTIONAL, -- Need R
    ...
}

CandidateServingFreqRangeListNR-r18 ::= SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxFreqIDC-r16)) OF CandidateServingFreqRangeNR-r18

CandidateServingFreqRangeNR-r18 ::=     SEQUENCE {
    candidateCenterFreq-r18                 ARFCN-ValueNR,
    candidateBandwidth-r18                  ENUMERATED {khz200, khz400, khz600, khz800, mhz1, mhz2, mhz3, mhz4, mhz5,
                                                mhz6, mhz8, mhz10, mhz20, mhz30, mhz40, mhz50, mhz60, mhz80, mhz100,
                                                mhz200, mhz300, mhz400}                             OPTIONAL -- Need R
}

UL-TrafficInfoReportingConfig-r18 ::=   SEQUENCE {
    pdu-SessionsToReportUL-TrafficInfoList-r18   SEQUENCE (SIZE (1.. maxNrofPDU-Sessions-r17)) OF PDU-SessionToReportUL-TrafficInfo-r18,
    ul-TrafficInfoProhibitTimer-r18              ENUMERATED {s0, s0dot5, s1, s2, s5, s10, s20, s30,
                                                     s60, s90, s120, s300, s600, spare3, spare2, spare1}
}


PDU-SessionToReportUL-TrafficInfo-r18 ::= SEQUENCE {
     pdu-SessionID-r18                        PDU-SessionID,
     qfi-ToReportUL-TrafficInfoList-r18       SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxNrofQFIs)) OF QFI
}

-- TAG-OTHERCONFIG-STOP
-- ASN1STOP





–	PhysCellIdUTRA-FDD
The IE PhysCellIdUTRA-FDD is used to indicate the physical layer identity of the cell, i.e. the primary scrambling code, as defined in TS 25.331 [45].
PhysCellIdUTRA-FDD information element
-- ASN1START
-- TAG-PHYSCELLIDUTRA-FDD-START

PhysCellIdUTRA-FDD-r16 ::=        INTEGER (0..511)

-- TAG-PHYSCELLIDUTRA-FDD-STOP
-- ASN1STOP

–	RRC-TransactionIdentifier
The IE RRC-TransactionIdentifier is used, together with the message type, for the identification of an RRC procedure (transaction).
RRC-TransactionIdentifier information element
-- ASN1START
-- TAG-RRC-TRANSACTIONIDENTIFIER-START

RRC-TransactionIdentifier ::=       INTEGER (0..3)

-- TAG-RRC-TRANSACTIONIDENTIFIER-STOP
-- ASN1STOP

–	Sensor-NameList
The IE Sensor-NameList is used to indicate the names of the sensors which the UE is configured to measure.
Sensor-NameList information element
-- ASN1START
-- TAG-SENSORNAMELIST-START

Sensor-NameList-r16 ::= SEQUENCE {
    measUncomBarPre-r16     ENUMERATED {true}            OPTIONAL,  -- Need R
    measUeSpeed             ENUMERATED {true}            OPTIONAL,  -- Need R
    measUeOrientation       ENUMERATED {true}            OPTIONAL   -- Need R
}

-- TAG-SENSORNAMELIST-STOP
-- ASN1STOP




–	TraceReference
The TraceReference contains parameter Trace Reference as defined in TS 32.422 [52].
TraceReference information element
-- ASN1START
-- TAG-TRACEREFERENCE-START

TraceReference-r16 ::= SEQUENCE {
    plmn-Identity-r16      PLMN-Identity,
    traceId-r16            OCTET STRING (SIZE (3))
}

-- TAG-TRACEREFERENCE-STOP
-- ASN1STOP

–	UE-MeasurementsAvailable
The IE UE-MeasurementsAvailable is used to indicate all relevant available indicators for UE measurements.
UE-MeasurementsAvailable information element
-- ASN1START
-- TAG-UE-MeasurementsAvailable-START

UE-MeasurementsAvailable-r16 ::=              SEQUENCE {
    logMeasAvailable-r16                         ENUMERATED {true}               OPTIONAL,
    logMeasAvailableBT-r16                       ENUMERATED {true}               OPTIONAL,
    logMeasAvailableWLAN-r16                     ENUMERATED {true}               OPTIONAL,
    connEstFailInfoAvailable-r16                 ENUMERATED {true}               OPTIONAL,
    rlf-InfoAvailable-r16                        ENUMERATED {true}               OPTIONAL,
    ...,
    [[
    successHO-InfoAvailable-r17                  ENUMERATED {true}               OPTIONAL,
    sigLogMeasConfigAvailable-r17                BOOLEAN                         OPTIONAL
    ]],
    [[
    successPSCell-InfoAvailable-r18              ENUMERATED {true}               OPTIONAL
    ]]

}

-- TAG-UE-MeasurementsAvailable-STOP
-- ASN1STOP

–	UTRA-FDD-Q-OffsetRange
The IE UTRA-FDD-Q-OffsetRange is used to indicate a frequency specific offset to be applied when evaluating triggering conditions for measurement reporting. The value is in dB. Value dB-24 corresponds to -24 dB, value dB-22 corresponds to -22 dB and so on.
UTRA-FDD-Q-OffsetRange information element
-- ASN1START
-- TAG-UTRA-FDD-Q-OFFSETRANGE-START

UTRA-FDD-Q-OffsetRange-r16 ::=              ENUMERATED {
                                                dB-24, dB-22, dB-20, dB-18, dB-16, dB-14,
                                                dB-12, dB-10, dB-8, dB-6, dB-5, dB-4, dB-3,
                                                dB-2, dB-1, dB0, dB1, dB2, dB3, dB4, dB5,
                                                dB6, dB8, dB10, dB12, dB14, dB16, dB18,
                                                dB20, dB22, dB24}

-- TAG-UTRA-FDD-Q-OFFSETRANGE-STOP
-- ASN1STOP

–	VisitedCellInfoList
The IE VisitedCellInfoList includes the mobility history information of maximum of 16 most recently visited primary cells or time spent in any cell selection state and/or camped on any cell state in NR or E-UTRA and, in case of Dual Connectivity, the mobility history information of maxPSCellHistory most recently visited primary secondary cell group cells across all the primary cells included in the VisitedCellInfoList. The most recently visited cell is stored first in the list. The list includes cells visited in RRC_IDLE, RRC_INACTIVE and RRC_CONNECTED states for NR and RRC_IDLE and RRC_CONNECTED for E-UTRA.
VisitedCellInfoList information element
-- ASN1START
-- TAG-VISITEDCELLINFOLIST-START

VisitedCellInfoList-r16 ::= SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxCellHistory-r16)) OF VisitedCellInfo-r16

VisitedCellInfo-r16 ::=  SEQUENCE {
    visitedCellId-r16        CHOICE {
        nr-CellId-r16            CHOICE {
            cgi-Info                 CGI-Info-Logging-r16,
            pci-arfcn-r16            PCI-ARFCN-NR-r16
        },
        eutra-CellId-r16         CHOICE {
            cellGlobalId-r16         CGI-InfoEUTRA,
            pci-arfcn-r16                PCI-ARFCN-EUTRA-r16
        }
    }                                        OPTIONAL,
    timeSpent-r16            INTEGER (0..4095),
    ...,
    [[
    visitedPSCellInfoListReport-r17    VisitedPSCellInfoList-r17                   OPTIONAL
    ]]
}

VisitedPSCellInfoList-r17 ::= SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxPSCellHistory-r17)) OF VisitedPSCellInfo-r17

VisitedPSCellInfo-r17 ::=    SEQUENCE {
    visitedCellId-r17            CHOICE {
        nr-CellId-r17                CHOICE {
            cgi-Info-r17                 CGI-Info-Logging-r16,
            pci-arfcn-r17                PCI-ARFCN-NR-r16
        },
        eutra-CellId-r17         CHOICE {
            cellGlobalId-r17         CGI-InfoEUTRALogging,
            pci-arfcn-r17            PCI-ARFCN-EUTRA-r16
        }
    }                                                 OPTIONAL,
    timeSpent-r17            INTEGER (0..4095),
    ...
}

-- TAG-VISITEDCELLINFOLIST-STOP
-- ASN1STOP



–	WLAN-NameList
The IE WLAN-NameList is used to indicate the names of the WLAN AP for which the UE is configured to measure.
WLAN-NameList information element
-- ASN1START
-- TAG-WLANNAMELIST-START

WLAN-NameList-r16 ::= SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxWLAN-Name-r16)) OF WLAN-Name-r16

WLAN-Name-r16 ::= OCTET STRING (SIZE (1..32))

-- ASN1STOP
-- TAG-WLANNAMELIST-STOP



6.3.5	Sidelink information elements
–	SL-BWP-Config
The IE SL-BWP-Config is used to configure the UE specific NR sidelink communication/discovery/positioning on one particular sidelink bandwidth part.
SL-BWP-Config information element
-- ASN1START
-- TAG-SL-BWP-CONFIG-START

SL-BWP-Config-r16 ::=                    SEQUENCE {
    sl-BWP-Id                                BWP-Id,
    sl-BWP-Generic-r16                       SL-BWP-Generic-r16                                            OPTIONAL,  -- Need M
    sl-BWP-PoolConfig-r16                    SL-BWP-PoolConfig-r16                                         OPTIONAL,  -- Need M
    ...,
    [[
    sl-BWP-PoolConfigPS-r17              SetupRelease {SL-BWP-PoolConfig-r16}                              OPTIONAL,  -- Need M
    sl-BWP-DiscPoolConfig-r17            SetupRelease {SL-BWP-DiscPoolConfig-r17}                          OPTIONAL   -- Need M
    ]],
    [[
    sl-BWP-PoolConfigA2X-r18             SetupRelease {SL-BWP-PoolConfig-r16}                              OPTIONAL,  -- Need M
    sl-BWP-PRS-PoolConfig-r18            SetupRelease {SL-BWP-PRS-PoolConfig-r18}                          OPTIONAL   -- Need M
    ]]
}

SL-BWP-Generic-r16 ::=                   SEQUENCE {
    sl-BWP-r16                               BWP                                                                OPTIONAL,    -- Need M
    sl-LengthSymbols-r16                     ENUMERATED {sym7, sym8, sym9, sym10, sym11, sym12, sym13, sym14}   OPTIONAL,    -- Need M
    sl-StartSymbol-r16                       ENUMERATED {sym0, sym1, sym2, sym3, sym4, sym5, sym6, sym7}        OPTIONAL,    -- Need M
    sl-PSBCH-Config-r16                      SetupRelease {SL-PSBCH-Config-r16}                                 OPTIONAL,    -- Need M
    sl-TxDirectCurrentLocation-r16           INTEGER (0..3301)                                                  OPTIONAL,    -- Need M
    ...,
    [[
    sl-Unlicensed-r18                        SetupRelease { SL-Unlicensed-r18 }                                 OPTIONAL     -- Need M
    ]]
}

SL-Unlicensed-r18 ::=                    SEQUENCE {
    sl-LBT-FailureRecoveryConfig-r18         SetupRelease { SL-LBT-FailureRecoveryConfig-r18 }                  OPTIONAL,    -- Need M
    sl-StartingSymbolFirst-r18               ENUMERATED {sym0, sym1, sym2, sym3, sym4, sym5, sym6}              OPTIONAL,    -- Need M
    sl-StartingSymbolSecond-r18              ENUMERATED {sym3, sym4, sym5, sym6, sym7}                          OPTIONAL,    -- Need M
    sl-TransmissionStructureForPSCCHandPSSCH-r18 ENUMERATED {contiguousRB, interlaceRB}                         OPTIONAL,    -- Need M
    sl-GapOfAdditionalSSSB-Occasion-r18      INTEGER (0..639)                                                   OPTIONAL,    -- Need M
    sl-AbsoluteFrequencySSB-NonAnchorList-r18 SEQUENCE (SIZE (1.. maxSL-NonAnchorRBsets)) OF ARFCN-ValueNR      OPTIONAL,    -- Need M
    sl-CPE-StartingPositionS-SSB-r18         INTEGER (1..9)                                                     OPTIONAL,    -- Need M
    sl-CWS-ForPsschWithoutHarqAck-r18        ENUMERATED {t1, t8, t16, t32, infinity}                            OPTIONAL,    -- Need M
    sl-NumOfAdditionalSSSBOccasion-r18       INTEGER (0..4)                                                     OPTIONAL,    -- Need M
    sl-SSSBPowerOffsetOfAnchorRBSet-r18      ENUMERATED {value1, value2}                                        OPTIONAL,    -- Need M
    sl-RBSetConfigList-r18                   SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..5)) OF SL-RBSetConfig-r18                       OPTIONAL,    -- Need M
    sl-IntraCellGuardBandsSL-List-r18        SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxSCSs)) OF IntraCellGuardBandsPerSCS-r16      OPTIONAL     -- Need M
}

-- TAG-SL-BWP-CONFIG-STOP
-- ASN1STOP







–	SL-BWP-ConfigCommon
The IE SL-BWP-ConfigCommon is used to configure the cell-specific configuration information on one particular sidelink bandwidth part.
SL-BWP-ConfigCommon information element
-- ASN1START
-- TAG-SL-BWP-CONFIGCOMMON-START

SL-BWP-ConfigCommon-r16 ::=              SEQUENCE {
    sl-BWP-Generic-r16                       SL-BWP-Generic-r16                                            OPTIONAL,    -- Need R
    sl-BWP-PoolConfigCommon-r16              SL-BWP-PoolConfigCommon-r16                                   OPTIONAL,    -- Need R
    ...,
    [[
    sl-BWP-PoolConfigCommonPS-r17            SL-BWP-PoolConfigCommon-r16                                   OPTIONAL,    -- Need R
    sl-BWP-DiscPoolConfigCommon-r17          SL-BWP-DiscPoolConfigCommon-r17                               OPTIONAL     -- Need R
    ]],
    [[
    sl-BWP-PoolConfigCommonA2X-r18       SL-BWP-PoolConfigCommon-r16                                       OPTIONAL      -- Need R
    ]]
}

-- TAG-SL-BWP-CONFIGCOMMON-STOP
-- ASN1STOP



–	SL-BWP-DiscPoolConfig
The IE SL-BWP-DiscPoolConfig is used to configure UE specific NR sidelink discovery dedicated resource pool.
SL-BWP-DiscPoolConfig information element
-- ASN1START
-- TAG-SL-BWP-DISCPOOLCONFIG-START

SL-BWP-DiscPoolConfig-r17 ::=        SEQUENCE {
    sl-DiscRxPool-r17                    SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxNrofRXPool-r16)) OF SL-ResourcePool-r16        OPTIONAL,    -- Cond HO
    sl-DiscTxPoolSelected-r17            SL-TxPoolDedicated-r16                                               OPTIONAL,    -- Need M
    sl-DiscTxPoolScheduling-r17          SL-TxPoolDedicated-r16                                               OPTIONAL     -- Need N
}

-- TAG-SL-BWP-DISCPOOLCONFIG-STOP
-- ASN1STOP





–	SL-BWP-DiscPoolConfigCommon
The IE SL-BWP-DiscPoolConfigCommon is used to configure the cell-specific NR sidelink discovery dedicated resource pool.
SL-BWP-DiscPoolConfigCommon information element
-- ASN1START
-- TAG-SL-BWP-DISCPOOLCONFIGCOMMON-START

SL-BWP-DiscPoolConfigCommon-r17 ::= SEQUENCE {
    sl-DiscRxPool-r17                   SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxNrofRXPool-r16)) OF SL-ResourcePool-r16         OPTIONAL,    -- Need R
    sl-DiscTxPoolSelected-r17           SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxNrofTXPool-r16)) OF SL-ResourcePoolConfig-r16   OPTIONAL,    -- Need R
    ...
}

-- TAG-SL-BWP-DISCPOOLCONFIGCOMMON-STOP
-- ASN1STOP

–	SL-BWP-PoolConfig
The IE SL-BWP-PoolConfig is used to configure NR sidelink communication resource pool.
SL-BWP-PoolConfig information element
-- ASN1START
-- TAG-SL-BWP-POOLCONFIG-START

SL-BWP-PoolConfig-r16 ::=        SEQUENCE {
    sl-RxPool-r16                    SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxNrofRXPool-r16)) OF SL-ResourcePool-r16        OPTIONAL,    -- Cond HO
    sl-TxPoolSelectedNormal-r16      SL-TxPoolDedicated-r16                                               OPTIONAL,    -- Need M
    sl-TxPoolScheduling-r16          SL-TxPoolDedicated-r16                                               OPTIONAL,    -- Need N
    sl-TxPoolExceptional-r16         SL-ResourcePoolConfig-r16                                            OPTIONAL     -- Need M
}

SL-TxPoolDedicated-r16 ::=       SEQUENCE {
    sl-PoolToReleaseList-r16         SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxNrofTXPool-r16)) OF SL-ResourcePoolID-r16      OPTIONAL,    -- Need N
    sl-PoolToAddModList-r16          SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxNrofTXPool-r16)) OF SL-ResourcePoolConfig-r16  OPTIONAL     -- Need N
}

SL-ResourcePoolConfig-r16 ::=    SEQUENCE {
    sl-ResourcePoolID-r16            SL-ResourcePoolID-r16,
    sl-ResourcePool-r16              SL-ResourcePool-r16                                                  OPTIONAL    -- Need M
}

SL-ResourcePoolID-r16 ::=        INTEGER (1..maxNrofPoolID-r16)

-- TAG-SL-BWP-POOLCONFIG-STOP
-- ASN1STOP





–	SL-BWP-PoolConfigCommon
The IE SL-BWP-PoolConfigCommon is used to configure the cell-specific NR sidelink communication resource pool.
SL-BWP-PoolConfigCommon information element
-- ASN1START
-- TAG-SL-BWP-POOLCONFIGCOMMON-START

SL-BWP-PoolConfigCommon-r16 ::=      SEQUENCE {
    sl-RxPool-r16                        SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxNrofRXPool-r16)) OF SL-ResourcePool-r16         OPTIONAL,    -- Need R
    sl-TxPoolSelectedNormal-r16          SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxNrofTXPool-r16)) OF SL-ResourcePoolConfig-r16   OPTIONAL,    -- Need R
    sl-TxPoolExceptional-r16             SL-ResourcePoolConfig-r16                                             OPTIONAL     -- Need R
}

-- TAG-SL-BWP-POOLCONFIGCOMMON-STOP
-- ASN1STOP



–	SL-BWP-PRS-PoolConfig
The IE SL-BWP-PRS-PoolConfig is used to configure UE specific NR sidelink PRS dedicated resource pool.
SL-BWP-PRS-PoolConfig information element
-- ASN1START
-- TAG-SL-BWP-PRS-POOLCONFIG-START

SL-BWP-PRS-PoolConfig-r18 ::=     SEQUENCE {
    sl-PRS-RxPool-r18                 SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxNrofRXPool-r16)) OF SL-PRS-ResourcePool-r18             OPTIONAL, -- Cond HO
    sl-PRS-TxPoolSelectedNormal-r18   SL-PRS-TxPoolDedicated-r18                                                     OPTIONAL, -- Need M
    sl-PRS-TxPoolScheduling-r18       SL-PRS-TxPoolDedicated-r18                                                     OPTIONAL, -- Need M
    sl-PRS-TxPoolExceptional-r18      SL-PRS-ResourcePoolConfig-r18                                                  OPTIONAL  -- Need R
}

SL-PRS-TxPoolDedicated-r18 ::=    SEQUENCE {
    sl-PRS-PoolToReleaseList-r1       SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxNrofSL-PRS-TxPool-r18)) OF SL-PRS-ResourcePoolID-r18     OPTIONAL, -- Need N
    sl-PRS-PoolToAddModList-r18       SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxNrofSL-PRS-TxPool-r18)) OF SL-PRS-ResourcePoolConfig-r18 OPTIONAL  -- Need N
}

SL-PRS-ResourcePoolConfig-r18 ::= SEQUENCE {
    sl-PRS-ResourcePoolID-r18         SL-PRS-ResourcePoolID-r18,
    sl-PRS-ResourcePool-r18           SL-PRS-ResourcePool-r18                                                        OPTIONAL  -- Need M
}

SL-PRS-ResourcePoolID-r18 ::=     INTEGER (1.. maxNrofSL-PRS-TxPool-r18)

-- TAG-SL-BWP-PRS-POOLCONFIG-STOP
-- ASN1STOP





–	SL-BWP-PRS-PoolConfigCommon
The IE SL-BWP-PRS-PoolConfigCommon is used to configure the cell-specific NR sidelink PRS dedicated resource pool.
SL-BWP-PRS-PoolConfigCommon information element
-- ASN1START
-- TAG-SL-BWP-PRS-POOLCONFIGCOMMON-START

SL-BWP-PRS-PoolConfigCommon-r18 ::= SEQUENCE {
    sl-PRS-RxPool-r18                 SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxNrofRXPool-r16)) OF SL-PRS-ResourcePool-r18              OPTIONAL, -- Need R
    sl-PRS-TxPoolSelectedNormal-r18   SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxNrofSL-PRS-TxPool-r18)) OF SL-PRS-ResourcePoolConfig-r18 OPTIONAL, -- Need R
    sl-PRS-TxPoolExceptional-r18      SL-PRS-ResourcePoolConfig-r18                                                  OPTIONAL, -- Need R
    ...
}

-- TAG-SL-BWP-PRS-POOLCONFIGCOMMON-STOP
-- ASN1STOP



–	SL-CBR-PriorityTxConfigList
The IE SL-CBR-PriorityTxConfigList indicates the mapping between PSSCH transmission parameter (such as MCS, PRB number, retransmission number, CR limit) sets by using the indexes of the configurations provided in sl-CBR-PSSCH-TxConfigList, CBR ranges by an index to the entry of the CBR range configuration in sl-CBR-RangeConfigList, and priority ranges. It also indicates the default PSSCH transmission parameters to be used when CBR measurement results are not available, and MCS range for the MCS tables used in the resource pool.
SL-CBR-PriorityTxConfigList information element
-- ASN1START
-- TAG-SL-CBR-PRIORITYTXCONFIGLIST-START

SL-CBR-PriorityTxConfigList-r16 ::= SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..8)) OF SL-PriorityTxConfigIndex-r16

SL-CBR-PriorityTxConfigList-v1650 ::= SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..8)) OF SL-PriorityTxConfigIndex-v1650

SL-PriorityTxConfigIndex-r16 ::=    SEQUENCE {
    sl-PriorityThreshold-r16             INTEGER (1..8)                                                   OPTIONAL,    -- Need M
    sl-DefaultTxConfigIndex-r16          INTEGER (0..maxCBR-Level-1-r16)                                  OPTIONAL,    -- Need M
    sl-CBR-ConfigIndex-r16               INTEGER (0..maxCBR-Config-1-r16)                                 OPTIONAL,    -- Need M
    sl-Tx-ConfigIndexList-r16            SEQUENCE (SIZE (1.. maxCBR-Level-r16)) OF SL-TxConfigIndex-r16   OPTIONAL     -- Need M
}

SL-PriorityTxConfigIndex-v1650 ::=  SEQUENCE {
    sl-MCS-RangeList-r16                SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxCBR-Level-r16)) OF SL-MinMaxMCS-List-r16    OPTIONAL     -- Need M
}

SL-TxConfigIndex-r16 ::=            INTEGER (0..maxTxConfig-1-r16)

-- TAG-SL-CBR-PRIORITYTXCONFIGLIST-STOP
-- ASN1STOP



–	SL-CBR-CommonTxConfigList
The IE SL-CBR-CommonTxConfigList indicates the list of PSSCH transmission parameters (such as MCS, sub-channel number, retransmission number, CR limit) in sl-CBR-PSSCH-TxConfigList, and the list of CBR ranges in sl-CBR-RangeConfigList, to configure congestion control to the UE for sidelink communication.
SL-CBR-CommonTxConfigList information element
-- ASN1START
-- TAG-SL-CBR-COMMONTXCONFIGLIST-START

SL-CBR-CommonTxConfigList-r16 ::=     SEQUENCE {
    sl-CBR-RangeConfigList-r16            SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxCBR-Config-r16)) OF SL-CBR-LevelsConfig-r16     OPTIONAL,   -- Need M
    sl-CBR-PSSCH-TxConfigList-r16         SEQUENCE (SIZE (1.. maxTxConfig-r16)) OF SL-CBR-PSSCH-TxConfig-r16    OPTIONAL    -- Need M
}

SL-CBR-LevelsConfig-r16 ::=           SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxCBR-Level-r16)) OF SL-CBR-r16

SL-CBR-PSSCH-TxConfig-r16 ::=         SEQUENCE {
    sl-CR-Limit-r16                       INTEGER(0..10000)                                                     OPTIONAL,   -- Need M
    sl-TxParameters-r16                   SL-PSSCH-TxParameters-r16                                             OPTIONAL    -- Need M
}

SL-CBR-r16 ::=                        INTEGER (0..100)

-- TAG-SL-CBR-COMMONTXCONFIGLIST-STOP
-- ASN1STOP



–	SL-CBR-CommonTxDedicatedSL-PRS-RP-List
The IE SL-CBR-CommonTxDedicatedSL-PRS-RP-List indicates the list of SL PRS transmission parameters (such as Maximum SL PRS transmission power, Maximum Number of SL PRS (re-)transmissions, and CR limit) in sl-CBR-SL-PRS-TxConfigList, and the list of CBR ranges in sl-CBR-RangeDedicatedSL-PRS-RP-List, to configure congestion control to the UE for sidelink positioning.
SL-CBR-CommonTxDedicatedSL-PRS-RP-List information element
-- ASN1START
-- TAG- SL-CBR-COMMONTXDEDICATEDSL-PRS-RP-LIST-START

SL-CBR-CommonTxDedicatedSL-PRS-RP-List-r18 ::= SEQUENCE {
    sl-CBR-RangeDedicatedSL-PRS-RP-List-r18     SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxCBR-ConfigDedSL-PRS-1-r18)) OF SL-CBR-LevelsDedicatedSL-PRS-RP-r18
                                                                                                                 OPTIONAL,    -- Need M
    sl-CBR-SL-PRS-TxConfigList-r18              SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxNrofSL-PRS-TxConfig-r18)) OF SL-CBR-SL-PRS-TxConfig-r18
                                                                                                                 OPTIONAL     -- Need M
}

SL-CBR-LevelsDedicatedSL-PRS-RP-r18 ::= SEQUENCE (SIZE (0..maxCBR-LevelDedSL-PRS-1-r18)) OF SL-CBR-Dedicated-SL-PRS-RP-r18

SL-CBR-SL-PRS-TxConfig-r18 ::=          SEQUENCE {
    sl-PRS-CR-Limit-r18                     INTEGER(0..10000)                                                    OPTIONAL,    -- Need M
    sl-PRS-MaxTx-power-r18                  INTEGER (-30..33)                                                    OPTIONAL,    -- Need M
    sl-PRS-MaxNum-Transmissions-r18         INTEGER(1..32)                                                       OPTIONAL     -- Need M
}

SL-CBR-Dedicated-SL-PRS-RP-r18 ::= INTEGER (0..100)

-- TAG-SL-CBR-COMMONTXDEDICATEDSL-PRS-RP-LIST-STOP
-- ASN1STOP



–	SL-ConfigDedicatedNR
The IE SL-ConfigDedicatedNR specifies the dedicated configuration information for NR sidelink communication/discovery/positioning.
SL-ConfigDedicatedNR information element
-- ASN1START
-- TAG-SL-CONFIGDEDICATEDNR-START

SL-ConfigDedicatedNR-r16 ::=         SEQUENCE {
    sl-PHY-MAC-RLC-Config-r16            SL-PHY-MAC-RLC-Config-r16                                              OPTIONAL,    -- Need M
    sl-RadioBearerToReleaseList-r16      SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxNrofSLRB-r16)) OF SLRB-Uu-ConfigIndex-r16        OPTIONAL,    -- Need N
    sl-RadioBearerToAddModList-r16       SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxNrofSLRB-r16)) OF SL-RadioBearerConfig-r16       OPTIONAL,    -- Need N
    sl-MeasConfigInfoToReleaseList-r16   SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxNrofSL-Dest-r16)) OF SL-DestinationIndex-r16     OPTIONAL,    -- Need N
    sl-MeasConfigInfoToAddModList-r16    SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxNrofSL-Dest-r16)) OF SL-MeasConfigInfo-r16       OPTIONAL,    -- Need N
    t400-r16                             ENUMERATED {ms100, ms200, ms300, ms400, ms600, ms1000, ms1500, ms2000} OPTIONAL,    -- Need M
    ...,
    [[
    sl-PHY-MAC-RLC-Config-v1700          SetupRelease { SL-PHY-MAC-RLC-Config-v1700 }                           OPTIONAL,    -- Need M
    sl-DiscConfig-r17                    SetupRelease { SL-DiscConfig-r17}                                      OPTIONAL     -- Need M
    ]],
    [[
    sl-DiscConfig-v1800                  SL-DiscConfig-v1800                                                    OPTIONAL     -- Need M
    ]],
    [[
    sl-DiscConfig-v1830                  SL-DiscConfig-v1830                                                    OPTIONAL     -- Need M
    ]],
    [[
    sl-DiscConfig-v1840                  SL-DiscConfig-v1840                                                    OPTIONAL     -- Need M
    ]]
}

SL-ConfigDedicatedNR-v16k0 ::=       SEQUENCE {
    sl-PHY-MAC-RLC-Config-v16k0          SL-PHY-MAC-RLC-Config-v16k0                                          OPTIONAL    -- Need M
}

SL-DestinationIndex-r16  ::=             INTEGER (0..maxNrofSL-Dest-1-r16)

SL-PHY-MAC-RLC-Config-r16::=         SEQUENCE {
    sl-ScheduledConfig-r16               SetupRelease { SL-ScheduledConfig-r16 }                                OPTIONAL,    -- Need M
    sl-UE-SelectedConfig-r16             SetupRelease { SL-UE-SelectedConfig-r16 }                              OPTIONAL,    -- Need M
    sl-FreqInfoToReleaseList-r16         SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxNrofFreqSL-r16)) OF SL-Freq-Id-r16               OPTIONAL,    -- Need N
    sl-FreqInfoToAddModList-r16          SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxNrofFreqSL-r16)) OF SL-FreqConfig-r16            OPTIONAL,    -- Need N
    sl-RLC-BearerToReleaseList-r16       SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxSL-LCID-r16)) OF SL-RLC-BearerConfigIndex-r16    OPTIONAL,    -- Need N
    sl-RLC-BearerToAddModList-r16        SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxSL-LCID-r16)) OF SL-RLC-BearerConfig-r16         OPTIONAL,    -- Need N
    sl-MaxNumConsecutiveDTX-r16          ENUMERATED {n1, n2, n3, n4, n6, n8, n16, n32}                          OPTIONAL,    -- Need M
    sl-CSI-Acquisition-r16               ENUMERATED {enabled}                                                   OPTIONAL,    -- Need R
    sl-CSI-SchedulingRequestId-r16       SetupRelease {SchedulingRequestId}                                     OPTIONAL,    -- Need M
    sl-SSB-PriorityNR-r16                INTEGER (1..8)                                                         OPTIONAL,    -- Need R
    networkControlledSyncTx-r16          ENUMERATED {on, off}                                                   OPTIONAL     -- Need M
}

SL-PHY-MAC-RLC-Config-v16k0 ::=      SEQUENCE {
    sl-FreqInfoToAddModListExt-v16k0     SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxNrofFreqSL-r16)) OF SL-FreqConfigExt-v16k0       OPTIONAL     -- Need N
}

SL-PHY-MAC-RLC-Config-v1700 ::=      SEQUENCE {
    sl-DRX-Config-r17                    SL-DRX-Config-r17                                                      OPTIONAL,    -- Need M
    sl-RLC-ChannelToReleaseList-r17      SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxSL-LCID-r16)) OF SL-RLC-ChannelID-r17            OPTIONAL, -- Cond L2U2N
    sl-RLC-ChannelToAddModList-r17       SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxSL-LCID-r16)) OF SL-RLC-ChannelConfig-r17        OPTIONAL, -- Cond L2U2N
    ...,
    [[
    sl-RLC-BearerToAddModListSizeExt-v1800 SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxSL-LCID-r16)) OF SL-RLC-BearerConfig-r16       OPTIONAL,   -- Need N
    sl-RLC-BearerToReleaseListSizeExt-v1800 SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxSL-LCID-r16)) OF SL-RLC-BearerConfigIndex-v1800 OPTIONAL, -- Need N
    sl-FreqInfoToAddModListExt-v1800     SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxNrofFreqSL-r16)) OF SL-FreqConfigExt-v1800       OPTIONAL, -- Need N
    sl-LBT-SchedulingRequestId-r18       SetupRelease {SchedulingRequestId}                                     OPTIONAL, -- Need M
    sl-SyncFreqList-r18                  SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxNrofFreqSL-r16)) OF SL-Freq-Id-r16               OPTIONAL, -- Need M
    sl-SyncTxMultiFreq-r18               ENUMERATED {true}                                                      OPTIONAL, -- Need R
    sl-MaxTransPowerCA-r18               P-Max                                                                  OPTIONAL, -- Need R
    sl-SCCH-CarrierSetConfig-r18         SetupRelease {SL-SCCH-CarrierSetConfigList-r18}                        OPTIONAL, -- Need M
    sl-PRS-SchedulingRequestId-r18       SetupRelease {SchedulingRequestId}                                     OPTIONAL  -- Need M
    ]]
}

SL-DiscConfig-r17::=                 SEQUENCE {
    sl-RelayUE-Config-r17                SetupRelease { SL-RelayUE-Config-r17}                                  OPTIONAL, -- Cond L2RelayUE
    sl-RemoteUE-Config-r17               SetupRelease { SL-RemoteUE-Config-r17}                                 OPTIONAL  -- Cond L2RemoteUE
}

SL-DiscConfig-v1800 ::=              SEQUENCE {
    sl-RelayUE-ConfigU2U-r18             SetupRelease { SL-RelayUE-ConfigU2U-r18}                          OPTIONAL, -- Cond U2URelayUE
    sl-RemoteUE-ConfigU2U-r18            SetupRelease { SL-RemoteUE-ConfigU2U-r18}                         OPTIONAL  -- Cond U2URemoteUE
}

SL-SCCH-CarrierSetConfigList-r18 ::= SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxNrofSL-CarrierSetConfig-r18)) OF SL-SCCH-CarrierSetConfig-r18

SL-SCCH-CarrierSetConfig-r18 ::=     SEQUENCE {
    sl-DestinationList-r18               SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxNrofSL-Dest-r16)) OF SL-DestinationIdentity-r16,
    sl-SRB-Identity-r18                  SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..3)) OF SRB-Identity,
    sl-AllowedCarrierFreqSet1-r18        SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxNrofFreqSL-r16)) OF INTEGER (1..maxNrofFreqSL-r16),
    sl-AllowedCarrierFreqSet2-r18        SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxNrofFreqSL-r16)) OF INTEGER (1..maxNrofFreqSL-r16)
}

SL-DiscConfig-v1830 ::=              SEQUENCE {
    sl-RemoteUE-ConfigU2U-v1830          SetupRelease { SL-RemoteUE-ConfigU2U-v1830}                       OPTIONAL  -- Cond U2URemoteUE
}

SL-DiscConfig-v1840 ::=              SEQUENCE {
    sl-RelayUE-ConfigU2U-v1840           SetupRelease { SL-RelayUE-ConfigU2U-v1840}                        OPTIONAL  -- Cond U2URelayUE
}

-- TAG-SL-CONFIGDEDICATEDNR-STOP
-- ASN1STOP









–	SL-ConfiguredGrantConfig
The IE SL-ConfiguredGrantConfig specifies the configured grant configuration information for NR sidelink communication.
SL-ConfiguredGrantConfig information element
-- ASN1START
-- TAG-SL-CONFIGUREDGRANTCONFIG-START

SL-ConfiguredGrantConfig-r16 ::=           SEQUENCE {
    sl-ConfigIndexCG-r16                       SL-ConfigIndexCG-r16,
    sl-PeriodCG-r16                            SL-PeriodCG-r16                                                       OPTIONAL, -- Need M
    sl-NrOfHARQ-Processes-r16                  INTEGER (1..16)                                                       OPTIONAL, -- Need M
    sl-HARQ-ProcID-offset-r16                  INTEGER (0..15)                                                       OPTIONAL, -- Need M
    sl-CG-MaxTransNumList-r16                  SL-CG-MaxTransNumList-r16                                             OPTIONAL, -- Need M
    rrc-ConfiguredSidelinkGrant-r16            SEQUENCE {
        sl-TimeResourceCG-Type1-r16                INTEGER (0..496)                                                  OPTIONAL, -- Need M
        sl-StartSubchannelCG-Type1-r16             INTEGER (0..26)                                                   OPTIONAL, -- Need M
        sl-FreqResourceCG-Type1-r16                INTEGER (0..6929)                                                 OPTIONAL, -- Need M
        sl-TimeOffsetCG-Type1-r16                  INTEGER (0..7999)                                                 OPTIONAL, -- Need R
        sl-N1PUCCH-AN-r16                          PUCCH-ResourceId                                                  OPTIONAL, -- Need M
        sl-PSFCH-ToPUCCH-CG-Type1-r16              INTEGER (0..15)                                                   OPTIONAL, -- Need M
        sl-ResourcePoolID-r16                      SL-ResourcePoolID-r16                                             OPTIONAL, -- Need M
        sl-TimeReferenceSFN-Type1-r16              ENUMERATED {sfn512}                                               OPTIONAL  -- Need S
    }                                                                                                                OPTIONAL, -- Need M
    ...,
    [[
    sl-N1PUCCH-AN-Type2-r16                    PUCCH-ResourceId                                                      OPTIONAL  -- Need M
    ]],
    [[
    sl-StartRBsetCG-Type1-r18                  INTEGER (0..4)                                                        OPTIONAL  -- Need M
    ]]
}

SL-ConfigIndexCG-r16 ::=          INTEGER (0..maxNrofCG-SL-1-r16)

SL-CG-MaxTransNumList-r16 ::=     SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..8)) OF SL-CG-MaxTransNum-r16

SL-CG-MaxTransNum-r16 ::=                  SEQUENCE {
    sl-Priority-r16                            INTEGER (1..8),
    sl-MaxTransNum-r16                         INTEGER (1..32)
}

SL-PeriodCG-r16 ::=            CHOICE{
    sl-PeriodCG1-r16               ENUMERATED {ms100, ms200, ms300, ms400, ms500, ms600, ms700, ms800, ms900, ms1000, spare6,
                                               spare5, spare4, spare3, spare2, spare1},
    sl-PeriodCG2-r16               INTEGER (1..99)
}

-- TAG-SL-CONFIGUREDGRANTCONFIG-STOP
-- ASN1STOP




–	SL-ConfiguredGrantConfigDedicated-SL-PRS-RP
The IE SL-ConfiguredGrantConfigDedicated-SL-PRS-RP specifies the configured grant configuration information for NR sidelink positioning in a dedicated SL-PRS resource pool.
SL-ConfiguredGrantConfigDedicated-SL-PRS-RP information element
-- ASN1START
-- TAG-SL-CONFIGUREDGRANTCONFIGDEDICATEDSL-PRS-RP-START

SL-ConfiguredGrantConfigDedicatedSL-PRS-RP-r18 ::=     SEQUENCE {
    sl-PRS-ConfigIndexCG-r18                               SL-ConfigIndexCG-r16,
    sl-PRS-PeriodCG-r18                                    SL-PeriodCG-r16                                         OPTIONAL, -- Need M
    sl-PRS-ResourcePoolID-r18                              SL-ResourcePoolID-r16                                   OPTIONAL, -- Need M
    rrc-ConfiguredSidelinkGrantDedicated-SL-PRS-RP-r18     SEQUENCE {
        sl-TimeOffsetCG-Type1-r18                              INTEGER (0..7999)                                   OPTIONAL, -- Need R
        sl-TimeReferenceSFN-Type1-r18                          ENUMERATED {sfn512}                                 OPTIONAL, -- Need S
        sl-TimeResourceCG-Type1-r18                            INTEGER (0..496)                                    OPTIONAL, -- Need M
        sl-PRS-ResourceIndicationFirstType1-r18                INTEGER(0..11)                                      OPTIONAL, -- Need M
        sl-PRS-ResourceIndicationFutureType1-r18               INTEGER(0..143)                                     OPTIONAL  -- Need M
    }
}

-- TAG-SL-CONFIGUREDGRANTCONFIGDEDICATEDSL-PRS-RP-STOP
-- ASN1STOP



–	SL-DestinationIdentity
The IE SL-DestinationIdentity is used to identify a destination of a NR sidelink communication.
SL-DestinationIdentity information element
-- ASN1START
-- TAG-SL-DESTINATIONIDENTITY-START

SL-DestinationIdentity-r16 ::=           BIT STRING (SIZE (24))

-- TAG-SL-DESTINATIONIDENTITY-STOP
-- ASN1STOP

–	SL-DRX-Config
The IE SL-DRX-Config is used to configure DRX related parameters for NR sidelink communication/discovery. The SL DRX timers should be calculated in the unit of physical slot.
SL-DRX-Config information element
-- ASN1START
-- TAG-SL-DRX-CONFIG-START

SL-DRX-Config-r17 ::=                      SEQUENCE {
    sl-DRX-ConfigGC-BC-r17                     SL-DRX-ConfigGC-BC-r17                                                 OPTIONAL,     -- Cond HO
    sl-DRX-ConfigUC-ToReleaseList-r17          SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxNrofSL-Dest-r16)) OF SL-DestinationIndex-r16     OPTIONAL,     -- Need N
    sl-DRX-ConfigUC-ToAddModList-r17           SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxNrofSL-Dest-r16)) OF SL-DRX-ConfigUC-Info-r17    OPTIONAL,     -- Need N
    ...
}

SL-DRX-ConfigUC-Info-r17 ::=               SEQUENCE {
    sl-DestinationIndex-r17                    SL-DestinationIndex-r16                                                OPTIONAL,     -- Need N
    sl-DRX-ConfigUC-r17                        SL-DRX-ConfigUC-r17                                                    OPTIONAL,     -- Need N
    ...
}

-- TAG-SL-DRX-CONFIG-STOP
-- ASN1STOP






–	SL-DRX-ConfigGC-BC
The IE SL-DRX-ConfigGC-BC is used to configure DRX related parameters for NR sidelink groupcast and broadcast communication, unicast/broadcast based communication of Direct Link Establishment Request (TS 24.587 [57]), and discovery message (TS 24.554 [72]).
SL-DRX-ConfigGC-BC information element
-- ASN1START
-- TAG-SL-DRX-CONFIGGC-BC-START

SL-DRX-ConfigGC-BC-r17 ::=      SEQUENCE {
    sl-DRX-GC-BC-PerQoS-List-r17    SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxSL-GC-BC-DRX-QoS-r17)) OF SL-DRX-GC-BC-QoS-r17        OPTIONAL,    -- Need M
    sl-DRX-GC-generic-r17           SL-DRX-GC-Generic-r17                                                       OPTIONAL,    -- Need M
    sl-DefaultDRX-GC-BC-r17         SL-DRX-GC-BC-QoS-r17                                                        OPTIONAL,    -- Need M
    ...
}

SL-DRX-GC-BC-QoS-r17 ::=            SEQUENCE {
    sl-DRX-GC-BC-MappedQoS-FlowList-r17 SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxNrofSL-QFIs-r16)) OF SL-QoS-Profile-r16       OPTIONAL,    -- Need M
    sl-DRX-GC-BC-OnDurationTimer-r17        CHOICE {
                                                subMilliSeconds INTEGER (1..31),
                                                milliSeconds    ENUMERATED {
                                                      ms1, ms2, ms3, ms4, ms5,ms6, ms8, ms10, ms20, ms30, ms40, ms50, ms60,
                                                      ms80, ms100, ms200, ms300, ms400, ms500, ms600, ms800, ms1000, ms1200,
                                                      ms1600, spare8, spare7, spare6, spare5, spare4, spare3, spare2, spare1}
                                            },
    sl-DRX-GC-InactivityTimer-r17           ENUMERATED {
                                                ms0, ms1, ms2, ms3, ms4, ms5, ms6, ms8, ms10, ms20, ms30, ms40, ms50, ms60, ms80,
                                                ms100, ms200, ms300, ms500, ms750, ms1280, ms1920, ms2560, spare9, spare8,
                                                spare7, spare6, spare5, spare4, spare3, spare2, spare1},
    sl-DRX-GC-BC-Cycle-r17                  ENUMERATED {
                                                ms10, ms20, ms32, ms40, ms60, ms64, ms70, ms80, ms128, ms160, ms256, ms320, ms512,
                                                ms640, ms1024, ms1280, ms2048, ms2560, ms5120, ms10240, spare12, spare11, spare10,
                                                spare9, spare8, spare7, spare6, spare5, spare4, spare3, spare2, spare1},
    ...
}

SL-DRX-GC-Generic-r17 ::=               SEQUENCE {
    sl-DRX-GC-HARQ-RTT-Timer1-r17           ENUMERATED {sl0, sl1, sl2, sl4, spare4, spare3, spare2, spare1}       OPTIONAL,  -- Need M
    sl-DRX-GC-HARQ-RTT-Timer2-r17           ENUMERATED {sl0, sl1, sl2, sl4, spare4, spare3, spare2, spare1}       OPTIONAL,  -- Need M
    sl-DRX-GC-RetransmissionTimer-r17       ENUMERATED {
                                                sl0, sl1, sl2, sl4, sl6, sl8, sl16, sl24, sl33, sl40, sl64, sl80, sl96, sl112, sl128,
                                                sl160, sl320, spare15, spare14, spare13, spare12, spare11, spare10, spare9, spare8,
                                                spare7, spare6, spare5, spare4, spare3, spare2, spare1}
}

-- TAG-SL-DRX-CONFIGGC-BC-STOP
-- ASN1STOP



–	SL-DRX-ConfigUC
The IE SL-DRX-ConfigUC is used to configure sidelink DRX related parameters for unicast communication.
SL-DRX-ConfigUC information element
-- ASN1START
-- TAG-DRX-CONFIGUC-START

SL-DRX-ConfigUC-r17 ::=                 SEQUENCE {
    sl-drx-onDurationTimer-r17              CHOICE {
                                                subMilliSeconds INTEGER (1..31),
                                                milliSeconds    ENUMERATED {
                                                    ms1, ms2, ms3, ms4, ms5, ms6, ms8, ms10, ms20, ms30, ms40, ms50, ms60,
                                                    ms80, ms100, ms200, ms300, ms400, ms500, ms600, ms800, ms1000, ms1200,
                                                    ms1600, spare8, spare7, spare6, spare5, spare4, spare3, spare2, spare1}
                                            },
    sl-drx-InactivityTimer-r17              ENUMERATED {
                                                ms0, ms1, ms2, ms3, ms4, ms5, ms6, ms8, ms10, ms20, ms30, ms40, ms50, ms60, ms80,
                                                ms100, ms200, ms300, ms500, ms750, ms1280, ms1920, ms2560, spare9, spare8,
                                                spare7, spare6, spare5, spare4, spare3, spare2, spare1},
    sl-drx-HARQ-RTT-Timer1-r17              ENUMERATED {sl0, sl1, sl2, sl4, spare4, spare3, spare2, spare1}     OPTIONAL,   -- Need M
    sl-drx-HARQ-RTT-Timer2-r17              ENUMERATED {sl0, sl1, sl2, sl4, spare4, spare3, spare2, spare1}     OPTIONAL,   -- Need M
    sl-drx-RetransmissionTimer-r17          ENUMERATED {
                                                sl0, sl1, sl2, sl4, sl6, sl8, sl16, sl24, sl33, sl40, sl64, sl80, sl96, sl112, sl128,
                                                sl160, sl320, spare15, spare14, spare13, spare12, spare11, spare10, spare9,
                                                spare8, spare7, spare6, spare5, spare4, spare3, spare2, spare1},
    sl-drx-CycleStartOffset-r17         CHOICE {
        ms10                                INTEGER(0..9),
        ms20                                INTEGER(0..19),
        ms32                                INTEGER(0..31),
        ms40                                INTEGER(0..39),
        ms60                                INTEGER(0..59),
        ms64                                INTEGER(0..63),
        ms70                                INTEGER(0..69),
        ms80                                INTEGER(0..79),
        ms128                               INTEGER(0..127),
        ms160                               INTEGER(0..159),
        ms256                               INTEGER(0..255),
        ms320                               INTEGER(0..319),
        ms512                               INTEGER(0..511),
        ms640                               INTEGER(0..639),
        ms1024                              INTEGER(0..1023),
        ms1280                              INTEGER(0..1279),
        ms2048                              INTEGER(0..2047),
        ms2560                              INTEGER(0..2559),
        ms5120                              INTEGER(0..5119),
        ms10240                             INTEGER(0..10239)
    },
    sl-drx-SlotOffset                       INTEGER (0..31)
}

-- TAG-SL-DRX-CONFIGUC-STOP
-- ASN1STOP




–	SL-DRX-ConfigUC-SemiStatic
The IE SL-DRX-ConfigUC-SemiStatic is used to indicate the semi-static sidelink DRX related parameters for unicast communication.
SL-DRX-ConfigUC-SemiStatic information element
-- ASN1START
-- TAG-DRX-CONFIGUCSEMISTATIC-START

SL-DRX-ConfigUC-SemiStatic-r17 ::=          SEQUENCE {
    sl-drx-onDurationTimer-r17                  CHOICE {
                                                    subMilliSeconds INTEGER (1..31),
                                                    milliSeconds    ENUMERATED {
                                                        ms1, ms2, ms3, ms4, ms5, ms6, ms8, ms10, ms20, ms30, ms40, ms50, ms60,
                                                        ms80, ms100, ms200, ms300, ms400, ms500, ms600, ms800, ms1000, ms1200,
                                                        ms1600, spare8, spare7, spare6, spare5, spare4, spare3, spare2, spare1}
                                            },
    sl-drx-CycleStartOffset-r17                 CHOICE {
        ms10                                        INTEGER(0..9),
        ms20                                        INTEGER(0..19),
        ms32                                        INTEGER(0..31),
        ms40                                        INTEGER(0..39),
        ms60                                        INTEGER(0..59),
        ms64                                        INTEGER(0..63),
        ms70                                        INTEGER(0..69),
        ms80                                        INTEGER(0..79),
        ms128                                       INTEGER(0..127),
        ms160                                       INTEGER(0..159),
        ms256                                       INTEGER(0..255),
        ms320                                       INTEGER(0..319),
        ms512                                       INTEGER(0..511),
        ms640                                       INTEGER(0..639),
        ms1024                                      INTEGER(0..1023),
        ms1280                                      INTEGER(0..1279),
        ms2048                                      INTEGER(0..2047),
        ms2560                                      INTEGER(0..2559),
        ms5120                                      INTEGER(0..5119),
        ms10240                                     INTEGER(0..10239)
    },
    sl-drx-SlotOffset-r17                   INTEGER (0..31)
}

-- TAG-SL-DRX-CONFIGUCSEMISTATIC-STOP
-- ASN1STOP

–	SL-FreqConfig
The IE SL-FreqConfig specifies the dedicated configuration information on one particular carrier frequency for NR sidelink communication/positioning.
SL-FreqConfig information element
-- ASN1START
-- TAG-SL-FREQCONFIG-START

SL-FreqConfig-r16 ::=              SEQUENCE {
    sl-Freq-Id-r16                     SL-Freq-Id-r16,
    sl-SCS-SpecificCarrierList-r16     SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxSCSs)) OF SCS-SpecificCarrier,
    sl-AbsoluteFrequencyPointA-r16     ARFCN-ValueNR                                                   OPTIONAL,  -- Need M
    sl-AbsoluteFrequencySSB-r16        ARFCN-ValueNR                                                   OPTIONAL,  -- Need R
    frequencyShift7p5khzSL-r16         ENUMERATED {true}                                               OPTIONAL,  -- Cond V2X-SL-Shared
    valueN-r16                         INTEGER (-1..1),
    sl-BWP-ToReleaseList-r16           SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxNrofSL-BWPs-r16)) OF BWP-Id               OPTIONAL,  -- Need N
    sl-BWP-ToAddModList-r16            SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxNrofSL-BWPs-r16)) OF SL-BWP-Config-r16    OPTIONAL,  -- Need N
    sl-SyncConfigList-r16              SL-SyncConfigList-r16                                           OPTIONAL,  -- Need M
    sl-SyncPriority-r16                ENUMERATED {gnss, gnbEnb}                                       OPTIONAL   -- Need M
}

SL-Freq-Id-r16 ::=                     INTEGER (1.. maxNrofFreqSL-r16)

SL-FreqConfigExt-v16k0 ::=         SEQUENCE {
    additionalSpectrumEmission-r16     AdditionalSpectrumEmission                                      OPTIONAL    -- Need M
}

SL-FreqConfigExt-v1800 ::=         SEQUENCE {
    absenceOfAnyOtherTechnology-r18    ENUMERATED {true}                                               OPTIONAL,  -- Need R
    sl-FreqSelectionConfigList-r18     SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..8)) OF SL-FreqSelectionConfig-r18            OPTIONAL,  -- Need R
    sl-SyncTxDisabled-r18              ENUMERATED {true}                                               OPTIONAL,  -- Need R
    sl-EnergyDetectionConfig-r18       CHOICE {
        sl-MaxEnergyDetectionThreshold-r18     INTEGER (-85..-52),
        sl-EnergyDetectionThresholdOffset-r18  INTEGER (-13..20)
    }                                                                                                  OPTIONAL,  -- Need R
    ue-ToUE-COT-SharingED-Threshold-r18    INTEGER (-85..-52)                                          OPTIONAL,  -- Need R
    harq-ACK-FeedbackRatioforCW-AdjustmentGC-Option2-r18 INTEGER (10..100)                             OPTIONAL,  -- Need R
    ...,
    [[
    additionalSpectrumEmission-v1860   AdditionalSpectrumEmission-v1760                                OPTIONAL  -- Need M
    ]]
}

-- TAG-SL-FREQCONFIG-STOP
-- ASN1STOP





–	SL-FreqConfigCommon
The IE SL-FreqConfigCommon specifies the cell-specific configuration information on one particular carrier frequency for NR sidelink communication/positioning.
SL-FreqConfigCommon information element
-- ASN1START
-- TAG-SL-FREQCONFIGCOMMON-START

SL-FreqConfigCommon-r16 ::=       SEQUENCE {
    sl-SCS-SpecificCarrierList-r16    SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxSCSs)) OF SCS-SpecificCarrier,
    sl-AbsoluteFrequencyPointA-r16    ARFCN-ValueNR,
    sl-AbsoluteFrequencySSB-r16       ARFCN-ValueNR                                                      OPTIONAL, -- Need R
    frequencyShift7p5khzSL-r16        ENUMERATED {true}                                                  OPTIONAL, -- Cond V2X-SL-Shared
    valueN-r16                        INTEGER (-1..1),
    sl-BWP-List-r16                   SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxNrofSL-BWPs-r16)) OF SL-BWP-ConfigCommon-r16 OPTIONAL, -- Need R
    sl-SyncPriority-r16               ENUMERATED {gnss, gnbEnb}                                          OPTIONAL, -- Need R
    sl-NbAsSync-r16                   BOOLEAN                                                            OPTIONAL, -- Need R
    sl-SyncConfigList-r16             SL-SyncConfigList-r16                                              OPTIONAL, -- Need R
    ...,
    [[
    sl-UnlicensedFreqConfigCommon-r18     SEQUENCE {
        absenceOfAnyOtherTechnology-r18       ENUMERATED {true}                                           OPTIONAL, -- Need R
        sl-FreqSelectionConfigList-r18        SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..8)) OF SL-FreqSelectionConfig-r18        OPTIONAL, -- Need R
        sl-SyncTxDisabled-r18                 ENUMERATED {true}                                           OPTIONAL, -- Need R
        sl-EnergyDetectionConfig-r18          CHOICE {
            sl-MaxEnergyDetectionThreshold-r18    INTEGER (-85..-52),
            sl-EnergyDetectionThresholdOffset-r18 INTEGER (-13..20)
        }                                                                                                 OPTIONAL, -- Need R
        ue-ToUE-COT-SharingED-Threshold-r18      INTEGER (-85..-52)                                       OPTIONAL, -- Need R
        harq-ACK-FeedbackRatioforCW-AdjustmentGC-Option2-r18 INTEGER (10..100)                            OPTIONAL  -- Need R
    }                                                                                                        OPTIONAL, -- Cond SIB12
    sl-PosBWP-List-r18                SEQUENCE ( SIZE (1..maxNrofSL-BWPs-r16)) OF SL-PosBWP-ConfigCommon-r18 OPTIONAL  -- Cond SIB23
    ]],
    [[
    additionalSpectrumEmission-v1860      AdditionalSpectrumEmission-v1760                                OPTIONAL  -- Need R
    ]]
}

SL-FreqConfigCommonExt-v16k0 ::=      SEQUENCE {
    additionalSpectrumEmission-r16        AdditionalSpectrumEmission                                      OPTIONAL  -- Need R
}

-- TAG-SL-FREQCONFIGCOMMON-STOP
-- ASN1STOP





–	SL-FreqSelectionConfig
The IE SL-FreqSelectionConfig specifies the configuration information for carrier selection for NR sidelink transmission using UE autonomous resource selection.
SL-FreqSelectionConfig information element
-- ASN1START
-- TAG-SL-FREQSELECTIONCONFIG-START

SL-FreqSelectionConfig-r18 ::=   SEQUENCE {
    sl-priorityList-r18              SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..8)) OF INTEGER (1..8),
    sl-threshCBR-FreqReselection-r18 SL-CBR-r16,
    sl-threshCBR-FreqKeeping-r18     SL-CBR-r16
}

-- TAG-SL-FREQSELECTIONCONFIG-STOP
-- ASN1STOP



–	SL-IndirectPathAddChange
The IE SL-IndirectPathAddChange specifies the configuration information of SL indirect path for SL indirect path addition/change in MP.
SL-IndirectPathAddChange information element
-- ASN1START
-- TAG-SL-INDIRECTPATHADDCHANGE-START

SL-IndirectPathAddChange-r18 ::=          SEQUENCE {
    sl-IndirectPathRelayUE-Identity-r18       SL-SourceIdentity-r17,
    sl-IndirectPathCellIdentity-r18           CellIdentity,
    t421-r18                                  ENUMERATED {ms50, ms100, ms150, ms200, ms500, ms1000, ms2000, ms10000} OPTIONAL, -- Need M

    ...
}

-- TAG-SL-INDIRECTPATHADDCHANGE-STOP
-- ASN1STOP



–	SL-InterUE-CoordinationConfig
The IE SL-InterUE-CoordinationConfig is used to configure the sidelink inter-UE coordination (between a UE, UE-A, and a peer UE, UE-B) parameters. The network ensures sidelink inter-UE coordination and sidelink DRX are not configured at the same time for a UE.
SL-InterUE-CoordinationConfig information element
-- ASN1START
-- TAG-SL-INTERUE-COORDINATIONCONFIG-START

SL-InterUE-CoordinationConfig-r17 ::=     SEQUENCE {
    sl-InterUE-CoordinationScheme1-r17        SL-InterUE-CoordinationScheme1-r17                                   OPTIONAL,   -- Need M
    sl-InterUE-CoordinationScheme2-r17        SL-InterUE-CoordinationScheme2-r17                                   OPTIONAL,   -- Need M
    ...
}

SL-InterUE-CoordinationScheme1-r17 ::=    SEQUENCE {
    sl-IUC-Explicit-r17                       ENUMERATED {enabled, disabled}                                       OPTIONAL,   -- Need M
    sl-IUC-Condition-r17                      ENUMERATED {enabled, disabled}                                       OPTIONAL,   -- Need M
    sl-Condition1-A-2-r17                     ENUMERATED {disabled}                                                OPTIONAL,   -- Need M
    sl-ThresholdRSRP-Condition1-B-1-Option1List-r17  SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..8)) OF SL-ThresholdRSRP-Condition1-B-1-r17 OPTIONAL,   -- Need M
    sl-ThresholdRSRP-Condition1-B-1-Option2List-r17  SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..8)) OF SL-ThresholdRSRP-Condition1-B-1-r17 OPTIONAL,   -- Need M
    sl-ContainerCoordInfo-r17                 ENUMERATED {enabled, disabled}                                       OPTIONAL,   -- Need M
    sl-ContainerRequest-r17                   ENUMERATED {enabled, disabled}                                       OPTIONAL,   -- Need M
    sl-TriggerConditionCoordInfo-r17          INTEGER (0..1)                                                       OPTIONAL,   -- Need M
    sl-TriggerConditionRequest-r17            INTEGER (0..1)                                                       OPTIONAL,   -- Need M
    sl-PriorityCoordInfoExplicit-r17          INTEGER (1..8)                                                       OPTIONAL,   -- Need M
    sl-PriorityCoordInfoCondition-r17         INTEGER (1..8)                                                       OPTIONAL,   -- Need M
    sl-PriorityRequest-r17                    INTEGER (1..8)                                                       OPTIONAL,   -- Need M
    sl-PriorityPreferredResourceSet-r17       INTEGER (1..8)                                                       OPTIONAL,   -- Need M
    sl-MaxSlotOffsetTRIV-r17                  INTEGER (1..8000)                                                    OPTIONAL,   -- Need M
    sl-NumSubCH-PreferredResourceSet-r17      INTEGER (1..27)                                                      OPTIONAL,   -- Need M
    sl-ReservedPeriodPreferredResourceSet-r17 INTEGER (1..16)                                                      OPTIONAL,   -- Need M
    sl-DetermineResourceType-r17              ENUMERATED {uea, ueb}                                                OPTIONAL,   -- Need M
    ...
}

SL-InterUE-CoordinationScheme2-r17 ::=    SEQUENCE {
    sl-IUC-Scheme2-r17                        ENUMERATED {enabled}                                                 OPTIONAL,   -- Need R
    sl-RB-SetPSFCH-r17                        BIT STRING (SIZE (10..275))                                          OPTIONAL,   -- Need M
    sl-TypeUE-A-r17                           ENUMERATED {enabled}                                                 OPTIONAL,   -- Need R
    sl-PSFCH-Occasion-r17                     INTEGER (0..1)                                                       OPTIONAL,   -- Need M
    sl-SlotLevelResourceExclusion-r17         ENUMERATED {enabled}                                                 OPTIONAL,   -- Need R
    sl-OptionForCondition2-A-1-r17            INTEGER (0..1)                                                       OPTIONAL,   -- Need M
    sl-IndicationUE-B-r17                     ENUMERATED {enabled, disabled}                                       OPTIONAL,   -- Need M
    ...,
    [[
    sl-DeltaRSRP-Thresh-v1720                 INTEGER (-30..30)                                                    OPTIONAL    -- Need M
    ]]
}


SL-ThresholdRSRP-Condition1-B-1-r17 ::=   SEQUENCE {
    sl-Priority-r17                           INTEGER (1..8),
    sl-ThresholdRSRP-Condition1-B-1-r17       INTEGER (0..66)
}

-- TAG-SL-INTERUE-COORDINATIONCONFIG-STOP
-- ASN1STOP





–	SL-LBT-FailureRecoveryConfig
The IE SL-LBT-FailureRecoveryConfig-r18 is used to configure the parameters used for detection and cancellation of Sidelink consistent LBT failures for operation with shared spectrum channel access, as specified in TS 38.321 [3].
SL-LBT-FailureRecoveryConfig information element
-- ASN1START
-- TAG-SL-LBT-FAILURERECOVERYCONFIG-START

SL-LBT-FailureRecoveryConfig-r18 ::=    SEQUENCE {
    sl-LBT-FailureInstanceMaxCount-r18      ENUMERATED {n4, n8, n16, n32, n64, n128, spare2, spare1}              OPTIONAL,   -- Need M
    sl-LBT-FailureDetectionTimer-r18        ENUMERATED {ms10, ms20, ms40, ms80, ms160, ms320, spare2, spare1}     OPTIONAL,   -- Need M
    sl-LBT-RecoveryTimer-r18                ENUMERATED {ms10, ms20, ms40, ms80, ms160, ms320, spare2, spare1}     OPTIONAL,   -- Need M
    ...
}

-- TAG-SL-LBT-FAILURERECOVERYCONFIG-STOP
-- ASN1STOP



–	SL-LogicalChannelConfig
The IE SL-LogicalChannelConfig is used to configure the sidelink logical channel parameters.
SL-LogicalChannelConfig information element
-- ASN1START
-- TAG-SL-LOGICALCHANNELCONFIG-START

SL-LogicalChannelConfig-r16 ::=            SEQUENCE {
    sl-Priority-r16                            INTEGER (1..8),
    sl-PrioritisedBitRate-r16                  ENUMERATED {kBps0, kBps8, kBps16, kBps32, kBps64, kBps128, kBps256, kBps512,
                                               kBps1024, kBps2048, kBps4096, kBps8192, kBps16384, kBps32768, kBps65536, infinity},
    sl-BucketSizeDuration-r16                  ENUMERATED {ms5, ms10, ms20, ms50, ms100, ms150, ms300, ms500, ms1000,
                                               spare7, spare6, spare5, spare4, spare3,spare2, spare1},
    sl-ConfiguredGrantType1Allowed-r16         ENUMERATED {true}                                                   OPTIONAL,   -- Need R
    sl-HARQ-FeedbackEnabled-r16                ENUMERATED {enabled, disabled }                                     OPTIONAL,   -- Need R
    sl-AllowedCG-List-r16                      SEQUENCE (SIZE (0.. maxNrofCG-SL-1-r16)) OF SL-ConfigIndexCG-r16
                                                                                                                   OPTIONAL,   -- Need R
    sl-AllowedSCS-List-r16                     SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxSCSs)) OF SubcarrierSpacing                   OPTIONAL,   -- Need R
    sl-MaxPUSCH-Duration-r16                   ENUMERATED {ms0p02, ms0p04, ms0p0625, ms0p125, ms0p25, ms0p5, spare2, spare1}
                                                                                                                   OPTIONAL,   -- Need R
    sl-LogicalChannelGroup-r16                 INTEGER (0..maxLCG-ID)                                              OPTIONAL,   -- Need R
    sl-SchedulingRequestId-r16                 SchedulingRequestId                                                 OPTIONAL,   -- Need R
    sl-LogicalChannelSR-DelayTimerApplied-r16  BOOLEAN                                                             OPTIONAL,   -- Need R
    ...,
    [[
    sl-ChannelAccessPriority-r18               INTEGER (1..4)                                                      OPTIONAL,   -- Need R
    sl-AllowedCarriers-r18           SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxNrofFreqSL-r16)) OF INTEGER (1..maxNrofFreqSL-r16) OPTIONAL -- Cond CONNECTED
    ]]
}
-- TAG-SL-LOGICALCHANNELCONFIG-STOP
-- ASN1STOP





–	SL-L2RelayUE-Config
The IE SL-L2RelayUE-Config is used to configure L2 U2N relay operation related configurations used by L2 U2N Relay UE, or L2 U2U relay operation related configurations used by L2 U2U Relay UE.
SL-L2RelayUE-Config information element
-- ASN1START
-- TAG-SL-L2RELAYUE-CONFIG-START

SL-L2RelayUE-Config-r17 ::=        SEQUENCE {
    sl-RemoteUE-ToAddModList-r17       SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxNrofRemoteUE-r17)) OF SL-RemoteUE-ToAddMod-r17    OPTIONAL,    -- Need N
    sl-RemoteUE-ToReleaseList-r17      SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxNrofRemoteUE-r17)) OF SL-DestinationIdentity-r16  OPTIONAL,    -- Need N
    ...,
    [[
    sl-U2U-RemoteUE-ToAddModList-r18   SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxNrofSL-Dest-r16)) OF SL-U2U-RemoteUE-Config-r18   OPTIONAL,    -- Need N
    sl-U2U-RemoteUE-ToReleaseList-r18  SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxNrofSL-Dest-r16)) OF SL-DestinationIdentity-r16   OPTIONAL     -- Need N
    ]]
}

SL-RemoteUE-ToAddMod-r17 ::=       SEQUENCE {
    sl-L2IdentityRemote-r17            SL-DestinationIdentity-r16,
    sl-SRAP-ConfigRelay-r17            SL-SRAP-Config-r17                                                      OPTIONAL,    -- Need M
    ...
}

SL-U2U-RemoteUE-Config-r18 ::=      SEQUENCE {
    sl-L2IdentityRemoteUE-r18           SL-DestinationIdentity-r16,
    sl-SourceRemoteUE-ToAddModList-r18  SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxNrofSL-Dest-r16)) OF SL-SourceRemoteUE-Config-r18   OPTIONAL,    -- Need N
    sl-SourceRemoteUE-ToReleaseList-r18 SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxNrofSL-Dest-r16)) OF SL-SourceIdentity-r17          OPTIONAL,    -- Need N
    ...
}

SL-SourceRemoteUE-Config-r18 ::=   SEQUENCE {
    sl-SourceUE-Identity-r18           SL-SourceIdentity-r17,
    sl-SRAP-ConfigU2U-r18              SL-SRAP-ConfigU2U-r18,
    ...
}

-- TAG-SL-L2RELAYUE-CONFIG-STOP
-- ASN1STOP



–	SL-L2RemoteUE-Config
The IE SL-L2RemoteUE-Config is used to configure L2 U2N relay operation related configurations used by L2 U2N Remote UE, or L2 U2U relay operation related configurations used by L2 U2U Remote UE.
SL-L2RemoteUE-Config information element
-- ASN1START
-- TAG-SL-L2REMOTEUE-CONFIG-START

SL-L2RemoteUE-Config-r17 ::=      SEQUENCE {
    sl-SRAP-ConfigRemote-r17          SL-SRAP-Config-r17                                    OPTIONAL,  --Need M
    sl-UEIdentityRemote-r17           RNTI-Value                                            OPTIONAL, -- Cond FirstRRCReconfig
    ...,
    [[
    sl-U2U-RelayUE-ToAddModList-r18   SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxNrofSL-Dest-r16)) OF SL-U2U-RelayUE-Config-r18        OPTIONAL,   -- Need N
    sl-U2U-RelayUE-ToReleaseList-r18  SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxNrofSL-Dest-r16)) OF SL-DestinationIdentity-r16       OPTIONAL    -- Need N
    ]]
}

SL-U2U-RelayUE-Config-r18 ::=             SEQUENCE {
    sl-L2IdentityRelay-r18                    SL-DestinationIdentity-r16,
    sl-TargetRemoteUE-ToAddModList-r18        SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxNrofSL-Dest-r16)) OF SL-TargetRemoteUE-Config-r18 OPTIONAL,   -- Need N
    sl-TargetRemoteUE-ToReleaseList-r18 SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxNrofSL-Dest-r16)) OF SL-DestinationIdentity-r16   OPTIONAL,   -- Need N
    ...
}

SL-TargetRemoteUE-Config-r18 ::=      SEQUENCE {
    sl-TargetUE-Identity-r18              SL-DestinationIdentity-r16,
    sl-SRAP-ConfigU2U-r18                 SL-SRAP-ConfigU2U-r18,
    ...
}

-- TAG-SL-L2REMOTEUE-CONFIG-STOP
-- ASN1STOP





–	SL-MeasConfigCommon
The IE SL-MeasConfigCommon is used to set the cell specific SL RSRP measurement configurations for unicast destinations.
SL-MeasConfigCommon information element
-- ASN1START
-- TAG-SL-MEASCONFIGCOMMON-START

SL-MeasConfigCommon-r16 ::=          SEQUENCE {
    sl-MeasObjectListCommon-r16          SL-MeasObjectList-r16                                           OPTIONAL,   -- Need R
    sl-ReportConfigListCommon-r16        SL-ReportConfigList-r16                                         OPTIONAL,   -- Need R
    sl-MeasIdListCommon-r16              SL-MeasIdList-r16                                               OPTIONAL,   -- Need R
    sl-QuantityConfigCommon-r16          SL-QuantityConfig-r16                                           OPTIONAL,   -- Need R
    ...
}

-- TAG-SL-MEASCONFIGCOMMON-STOP
-- ASN1STOP



–	SL-MeasConfigInfo
The IE SL-MeasConfigInfo is used to set RSRP measurement configurations for unicast destinations.
SL-MeasConfigInfo information element
-- ASN1START
-- TAG-SL-MEASCONFIGINFO-START

SL-MeasConfigInfo-r16 ::=           SEQUENCE {
    sl-DestinationIndex-r16             SL-DestinationIndex-r16,
    sl-MeasConfig-r16                   SL-MeasConfig-r16,
    ...
}

SL-MeasConfig-r16 ::=               SEQUENCE {
    sl-MeasObjectToRemoveList-r16       SL-MeasObjectToRemoveList-r16                                           OPTIONAL,   -- Need N
    sl-MeasObjectToAddModList-r16       SL-MeasObjectList-r16                                                   OPTIONAL,   -- Need N
    sl-ReportConfigToRemoveList-r16     SL-ReportConfigToRemoveList-r16                                         OPTIONAL,   -- Need N
    sl-ReportConfigToAddModList-r16     SL-ReportConfigList-r16                                                 OPTIONAL,   -- Need N
    sl-MeasIdToRemoveList-r16           SL-MeasIdToRemoveList-r16                                               OPTIONAL,   -- Need N
    sl-MeasIdToAddModList-r16           SL-MeasIdList-r16                                                       OPTIONAL,   -- Need N
    sl-QuantityConfig-r16               SL-QuantityConfig-r16                                                   OPTIONAL,   -- Need M
    ...
}

SL-MeasObjectToRemoveList-r16 ::=   SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxNrofSL-ObjectId-r16)) OF SL-MeasObjectId-r16

SL-ReportConfigToRemoveList-r16 ::= SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxNrofSL-ReportConfigId-r16)) OF SL-ReportConfigId-r16

SL-MeasIdToRemoveList-r16 ::=       SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxNrofSL-MeasId-r16)) OF SL-MeasId-r16

-- TAG-SL-MEASCONFIGINFO-STOP
-- ASN1STOP



–	SL-MeasIdList
The IE SL-MeasIdList concerns a list of SL measurement identities to add or modify for a destination, with for each entry the sl-MeasId, the associated sl-MeasObjectId and the associated sl-ReportConfigId.
SL-MeasIdList information element
-- ASN1START
-- TAG-SL-MEASIDLIST-START

SL-MeasIdList-r16 ::=               SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxNrofSL-MeasId-r16)) OF SL-MeasIdInfo-r16

SL-MeasIdInfo-r16 ::=               SEQUENCE {
    sl-MeasId-r16                       SL-MeasId-r16,
    sl-MeasObjectId-r16                 SL-MeasObjectId-r16,
    sl-ReportConfigId-r16               SL-ReportConfigId-r16,
    ...
}

SL-MeasId-r16 ::=                   INTEGER (1..maxNrofSL-MeasId-r16)

-- TAG-SL-MEASIDLIST-STOP
-- ASN1STOP

–	SL-MeasObjectList
The IE SL-MeasObjectList concerns a list of SL measurement objects to add or modify for a destination.
SL-MeasObjectList information element
-- ASN1START
-- TAG-SL-MEASOBJECTLIST-START

SL-MeasObjectList-r16 ::=               SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxNrofSL-ObjectId-r16)) OF SL-MeasObjectInfo-r16

SL-MeasObjectInfo-r16 ::=               SEQUENCE {
    sl-MeasObjectId-r16                     SL-MeasObjectId-r16,
    sl-MeasObject-r16                       SL-MeasObject-r16,
    ...
}

SL-MeasObjectId-r16 ::=                 INTEGER (1..maxNrofSL-ObjectId-r16)

SL-MeasObject-r16 ::=                   SEQUENCE {
    frequencyInfoSL-r16                     ARFCN-ValueNR,
    ...
}

-- TAG-SL-MEASOBJECTLIST-STOP
-- ASN1STOP



–	SL-PagingIdentityRemoteUE
The IE SL-PagingIdentityRemoteUE includes the Remote UE's paging UE ID.
SL-PagingIdentityRemoteUE information element
-- ASN1START
-- TAG-SL-PAGINGIDENTITYREMOTEUE-START

SL-PagingIdentityRemoteUE-r17 ::=  SEQUENCE {
    ng-5G-S-TMSI-r17                   NG-5G-S-TMSI,
    fullI-RNTI-r17                     I-RNTI-Value                      OPTIONAL   -- Need R
}

-- TAG-SL-PAGINGIDENTITYREMOTEUE-STOP
-- ASN1STOP

–	SL-PBPS-CPS-Config
The IE SL-PBPS-CPS-Config specifies the operation information for a resource pool which can be (pre-)configured to enable full sensing only, partial sensing only, random resource selection only, or any combination(s) thereof.
SL-PBPS-CPS-Config information element
-- ASN1START
-- TAG-SL-PBPS-CPS-CONFIG-START

SL-PBPS-CPS-Config-r17 ::=                SEQUENCE {
sl-AllowedResourceSelectionConfig-r17     ENUMERATED {c1, c2, c3, c4, c5, c6, c7}                             OPTIONAL,   -- Need M
sl-MinNumCandidateSlotsPeriodic-r17       INTEGER (1..32)                                                     OPTIONAL,   -- Need M
sl-PBPS-OccasionReservePeriodList-r17     SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..16)) OF INTEGER (1..16)                          OPTIONAL,   -- Need M
sl-Additional-PBPS-Occasion-r17           ENUMERATED { monitored }                                            OPTIONAL,   -- Need M
sl-CPS-WindowPeriodic-r17                 INTEGER (5..30)                                                     OPTIONAL,   -- Need M
sl-MinNumCandidateSlotsAperiodic-r17      INTEGER (1..32)                                                     OPTIONAL,   -- Need M
sl-MinNumRssiMeasurementSlots-r17         INTEGER (1..800)                                                    OPTIONAL,   -- Need M
sl-DefaultCBR-RandomSelection-r17         INTEGER (0..100)                                                    OPTIONAL,   -- Need M
sl-DefaultCBR-PartialSensing-r17          INTEGER (0..100)                                                    OPTIONAL,   -- Need M
sl-CPS-WindowAperiodic-r17                INTEGER (0..30)                                                     OPTIONAL,   -- Need M
sl-PartialSensingInactiveTime-r17         ENUMERATED { enabled, disabled }                                    OPTIONAL,   -- Need M
    ...
}

-- TAG-SL-PBPS-CPS-CONFIG-STOP
-- ASN1STOP



–	SL-PDCP-Config
The IE SL-PDCP-Config is used to set the configurable PDCP parameters for a sidelink radio bearer.
SL-PDCP-Config information element
-- ASN1START
-- TAG-SL-PDCP-CONFIG-START

SL-PDCP-Config-r16 ::=       SEQUENCE {
    sl-DiscardTimer-r16          ENUMERATED {ms3, ms10, ms20, ms25, ms30, ms40, ms50, ms60, ms75, ms100, ms150, ms200,
                                 ms250, ms300, ms500, ms750, ms1500, infinity}                                   OPTIONAL, -- Cond Setup
    sl-PDCP-SN-Size-r16          ENUMERATED {len12bits, len18bits}                                               OPTIONAL, -- Cond Setup2
    sl-OutOfOrderDelivery        ENUMERATED { true }                                                             OPTIONAL,    -- Need R
    ...
}

-- TAG-SL-PDCP-CONFIG-STOP
-- ASN1STOP





-	SL-PosBWP-ConfigCommon
The IE SL-PosBWP-ConfigCommon is used to configure the cell-specific configuration for sidelink positioning on one particular sidelink bandwidth part.
SL-PosBWP-ConfigCommon information element
-- ASN1START
-- TAG-SL-POSBWP-CONFIGCOMMON-START

SL-PosBWP-ConfigCommon-r18 ::=           SEQUENCE {
    sl-BWP-Generic-r18                       SL-BWP-Generic-r16                                            OPTIONAL,    -- Need R
    sl-BWP-PRS-PoolConfigCommon-r18          SL-BWP-PRS-PoolConfigCommon-r18                               OPTIONAL,    -- Need R
    ...
}

-- TAG-SL-POSBWP-CONFIGCOMMON-STOP
-- ASN1STOP



–	SL-PRS-ResourcePool
The IE SL-PRS-ResourcePool specifies the configuration information for NR sidelink PRS dedicated resource pool.
SL-PRS-ResourcePool information element
-- ASN1START
-- TAG-SL-PRS-RESOURCEPOOL-START

SL-PRS-ResourcePool-r18 ::=                  SEQUENCE {
    sl-PRS-PSCCH-Config-r18                      SetupRelease { SL-PSCCH-ConfigDedicatedSL-PRS-RP-r18}           OPTIONAL,   -- Need M
    sl-StartRB-SubchannelDedicatedSL-PRS-RP-r18  INTEGER (0..265)                                                OPTIONAL,   -- Need M
    sl-FilterCoefficient-r18                     FilterCoefficient                                               OPTIONAL,   -- Need M
    sl-ThreshS-RSSI-PRS-CBR-r18                  INTEGER (0..45)                                                 OPTIONAL,   -- Need M
    sl-RB-Number-r18                             INTEGER (10..275)                                               OPTIONAL,   -- Need M
    sl-TimeResource-r18                          BIT STRING (SIZE (10..160))                                     OPTIONAL,   -- Need M
    sl-PosAllowedResourceSelectionConfig-r18     ENUMERATED {c1, c2, c3}                                         OPTIONAL,   -- Need M
    sl-PRS-ResourceReservePeriodList-r18         SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..16)) OF SL-ReservationPeriodAllowedDedicatedSL-PRS-RP-r18
                                                                                                                 OPTIONAL,
    sl-PRS-ResourcesDedicatedSL-PRS-RP-r18       SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..12)) OF SL-PRS-ResourceDedicatedSL-PRS-RP-r18 OPTIONAL,  -- Need M
    sl-PRS-PowerControl-r18                      SL-PRS-PowerControl-r18                                         OPTIONAL,   -- Need M
    sl-SensingWindowDedicatedSL-PRS-RP-r18       ENUMERATED {ms100, ms1100}                                      OPTIONAL,   -- Need M
    sl-TxPercentageDedicatedSL-PRS-RP-List-r18   SEQUENCE (SIZE (8)) OF SL-TxPercentageDedicatedSL-PRS-RP-Config-r18 OPTIONAL, -- Need M
    sl-SCI-basedSL-PRS-TxTriggerSCI1-B-r18       BOOLEAN                                                         OPTIONAL,   -- Need M
    sl-NumSubchannelDedicatedSL-PRS-RP-r18       INTEGER (1..27)                                                 OPTIONAL,   -- Need M
    sl-SubchannelSizeDedicatedSL-PRS-RP-r18      ENUMERATED {n10, n12, n15, n20, n25, n50, n75, n100}            OPTIONAL,   -- Need M
    sl-MaxNumPerReserveDedicatedSL-PRS-RP-r18    ENUMERATED {n2, n3}                                             OPTIONAL,   -- Need M
    sl-NumReservedBitsSCI1B-DedicatedSL-PRS-RP-r18 INTEGER (0..20)                                               OPTIONAL,   -- Need R
    sl-SRC-ID-LenDedicatedSL-PRS-RP-r18          ENUMERATED {n12, n24}                                           OPTIONAL,   -- Need M
    sl-CBR-PriorityTxConfigDedicatedSL-PRS-RP-List-r18 SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..8)) OF SL-PriorityTxConfigIndexDedicatedSL-PRS-RP-r18
                                                                                                                 OPTIONAL,   -- Need M
    sl-TimeWindowSizeCBR-DedicatedSL-PRS-RP-r18   ENUMERATED {ms100, slot100}                                    OPTIONAL,   -- Need M
    sl-TimeWindowSizeCR-DedicatedSL-PRS-RP-r18    ENUMERATED {ms1000, slot1000}                                  OPTIONAL,   -- Need M
    sl-CBR-CommonTxDedicatedSL-PRS-RP-List-r18    SL-CBR-CommonTxDedicatedSL-PRS-RP-List-r18                     OPTIONAL,   -- Need M
    sl-PriorityThreshold-UL-URLLC-r18             INTEGER (1..9)                                                 OPTIONAL,   -- Need M
    sl-PriorityThreshold-r18                      INTEGER (1..9)                                                 OPTIONAL,   -- Need M
    sl-SelectionWindowListDedicatedSL-PRS-RP-r18  SEQUENCE (SIZE (8)) OF SL-SelectionWindowConfigDedicated-SL-PRS-RP-r18
                                                                                                                 OPTIONAL,   -- Need M
    sl-Thres-RSRP-ListDedicatedSL-PRS-RP-r18      SEQUENCE (SIZE (64)) OF SL-PRS-ThresRSRP-r18                   OPTIONAL,   -- Need M
    sl-PreemptionEnableDedicatedSL-PRS-RP-r18     ENUMERATED {enabled, pl1, pl2, pl3, pl4, pl5, pl6, pl7, pl8}   OPTIONAL    -- Need R
}

SL-PSCCH-ConfigDedicatedSL-PRS-RP-r18 ::=     SEQUENCE {
    sl-TimeResourcePSCCH-DedicatedSL-PRS-RP-r18   ENUMERATED {n2, n3}                                            OPTIONAL,   -- Need M
    sl-FreqResourcePSCCH-DedicatedSL-PRS-RP-r18   ENUMERATED {n10,n12, n15, n20, n25}                            OPTIONAL,   -- Need M
    ...,
    [[
    sl-DMRS-ScrambleID-DedicatedSL-PRS-RP-r18     INTEGER (0..65535)                                             OPTIONAL    -- Need M
    ]]
}

SL-ReservationPeriodAllowedDedicatedSL-PRS-RP-r18 ::= CHOICE {
    sl-ResourceReservePeriod1-r18              ENUMERATED {ms0, ms100, ms160, ms200, ms300, ms320, ms400, ms500, ms600, ms640,
                                                           ms700, ms800, ms900, ms1000, ms1280, ms2560, ms5120, ms10240},
    sl-ResourceReservePeriod2-r18              INTEGER (1..99)
}

SL-PRS-ResourceDedicatedSL-PRS-RP-r18::=      SEQUENCE {
    sl-PRS-ResourceID-r18                         INTEGER (0..11)                                                OPTIONAL,   -- Need M
    sl-NumberOfSymbols-r18                        INTEGER (1..9)                                                 OPTIONAL,   -- Need M
    sl-CombSize-r18                               ENUMERATED{n2,n4,n6}                                           OPTIONAL,   -- Need R
    sl-PRS-starting-symbol-r18                    INTEGER (4..12)                                                OPTIONAL,   -- Need M
    sl-PRS-comb-offset-r18                        INTEGER(1..5)                                                  OPTIONAL    -- Need M
}

SL-PRS-PowerControl-r18::= SEQUENCE {
    dl-P0-SL-PRS-r18           INTEGER(-202..24)                                                                 OPTIONAL,   -- Need M
    dl-Alpha-SL-PRS-r18        ENUMERATED {alpha0, alpha04, alpha05, alpha06, alpha07, alpha08, alpha09, alpha1} OPTIONAL,   -- Need M
    sl-P0-SL-PRS-r18           INTEGER(-202..24)                                                                 OPTIONAL,   -- Need M
    sl-Alpha-SL-PRS-r18        ENUMERATED {alpha0, alpha04, alpha05, alpha06, alpha07, alpha08, alpha09, alpha1} OPTIONAL    -- Need S
}

SL-TxPercentageDedicatedSL-PRS-RP-Config-r18::= SEQUENCE {
    sl-TxPercentageDedicatedSL-PRS-RP-r18           INTEGER (1..8)                                               OPTIONAL,   -- Need M
    sl-Priority-DedicatedSL-PRS-RP                  ENUMERATED {p20, p35, p50}                                   OPTIONAL    -- Need M
}

SL-PriorityTxConfigIndexDedicatedSL-PRS-RP-r18 ::= SEQUENCE {
    sl-PriorityThresholdDedicatedSL-PRS-RP-r18         INTEGER (1..8)                                             OPTIONAL,   -- Need M
    sl-DefaultTxConfigIndexDedicatedSL-PRS-RP-r18      INTEGER (0..maxCBR-LevelDedSL-PRS-1-r18)                   OPTIONAL,   -- Need M
    sl-CBR-ConfigIndexDedicatedSL-PRS-RP-r18           INTEGER (0..maxCBR-ConfigDedSL-PRS-1-r18)                  OPTIONAL,   -- Need M
    sl-PRS-TxConfigIndexList-r18                       SEQUENCE (SIZE (1.. maxCBR-LevelDedSL-PRS-1-r18)) OF SL-PRS-TxConfigIndex-r18
                                                                                                                  OPTIONAL    -- Need M
}

SL-PRS-TxConfigIndex-r18 ::=    INTEGER (0.. maxNrofSL-PRS-TxConfig-r18)

SL-SelectionWindowConfigDedicated-SL-PRS-RP-r18::= SEQUENCE {
    sl-PRS-Priority-r18                                INTEGER (1..8),
    sl-PRS-SelectionWindow-r18                         ENUMERATED {n1, n5, n10, n20}
}

SL-PRS-ThresRSRP-r18 ::=       INTEGER (0..66)

-- TAG-SL-PRS-RESOURCEPOOL-STOP
-- ASN1STOP






–	SL-PSBCH-Config
The IE SL-PSBCH-Config indicates PSBCH transmission parameters on each sidelink bandwidth part.
SL-PSBCH-Config information element
-- ASN1START
-- TAG-SL-PSBCH-CONFIG-START

SL-PSBCH-Config-r16 ::= SEQUENCE {
    dl-P0-PSBCH-r16         INTEGER (-16..15)                                                                   OPTIONAL,    -- Need M
    dl-Alpha-PSBCH-r16      ENUMERATED {alpha0, alpha04, alpha05, alpha06, alpha07, alpha08, alpha09, alpha1}   OPTIONAL,    -- Need M
    ...,
    [[
    dl-P0-PSBCH-r17         INTEGER (-202..24)                                                                  OPTIONAL     -- Need M
    ]]
}

-- TAG-SL-PSBCH-CONFIG-STOP
-- ASN1STOP



–	SL-PSSCH-TxConfigList
The IE SL-PSSCH-TxConfigList indicates PSSCH transmission parameters. When lower layers select parameters from the range indicated in IE SL-PSSCH-TxConfigList, the UE considers both configurations in IE SL-PSSCH-TxConfigList and the CBR-dependent configurations represented in IE SL-CBR-PriorityTxConfigList. Only one IE SL-PSSCH-TxConfig is provided per SL-TypeTxSync.
SL-PSSCH-TxConfigList information element
-- ASN1START
-- TAG-SL-PSSCH-TXCONFIGLIST-START

SL-PSSCH-TxConfigList-r16 ::=    SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxPSSCH-TxConfig-r16)) OF SL-PSSCH-TxConfig-r16

SL-PSSCH-TxConfig-r16 ::=        SEQUENCE {
    sl-TypeTxSync-r16                SL-TypeTxSync-r16                                   OPTIONAL,    -- Need R
    sl-ThresUE-Speed-r16             ENUMERATED {kmph60, kmph80, kmph100, kmph120,
                                                kmph140, kmph160, kmph180, kmph200},
    sl-ParametersAboveThres-r16      SL-PSSCH-TxParameters-r16,
    sl-ParametersBelowThres-r16      SL-PSSCH-TxParameters-r16,
    ...,
    [[
    sl-ParametersAboveThres-v1650    SL-MinMaxMCS-List-r16                               OPTIONAL,    -- Need R
    sl-ParametersBelowThres-v1650    SL-MinMaxMCS-List-r16                               OPTIONAL     -- Need R
    ]]
}


SL-PSSCH-TxParameters-r16 ::=    SEQUENCE {
    sl-MinMCS-PSSCH-r16              INTEGER (0..27),
    sl-MaxMCS-PSSCH-r16              INTEGER (0..31),
    sl-MinSubChannelNumPSSCH-r16     INTEGER (1..27),
    sl-MaxSubchannelNumPSSCH-r16     INTEGER (1..27),
    sl-MaxTxTransNumPSSCH-r16        INTEGER (1..32),
    sl-MaxTxPower-r16                SL-TxPower-r16                                      OPTIONAL    -- Cond CBR
}

-- TAG-SL-PSSCH-TXCONFIGLIST-STOP
-- ASN1STOP





–	SL-QoS-FlowIdentity
The IE SL-QoS-FlowIdentity is used to identify a sidelink QoS flow.
SL-QoS-FlowIdentity information element
-- ASN1START
-- TAG-SL-QOS-FLOWIDENTITY-START

SL-QoS-FlowIdentity-r16 ::=                    INTEGER (1..maxNrofSL-QFIs-r16)

-- TAG-SL-QOS-FLOWIDENTITY-STOP
-- ASN1STOP

–	SL-QoS-Profile
The IE SL-QoS-Profile is used to give the QoS parameters for a sidelink QoS flow. Need codes or conditions specified for SL-QoS-Profile do not apply, in case SL-QoS-Profile is included in SidelinkUEInformationNR.
SL-QoS-Profile information element
-- ASN1START
-- TAG-SL-QOS-PROFILE-START

SL-QoS-Profile-r16 ::=        SEQUENCE {
    sl-PQI-r16                    SL-PQI-r16                                                  OPTIONAL,   -- Need R
    sl-GFBR-r16                   INTEGER (0..4000000000)                                     OPTIONAL,   -- Need R
    sl-MFBR-r16                   INTEGER (0..4000000000)                                     OPTIONAL,   -- Need R
    sl-Range-r16                  INTEGER (1..1000)                                           OPTIONAL,   -- Need R
    ...
}

SL-PQI-r16 ::=                CHOICE {
    sl-StandardizedPQI-r16        INTEGER (0..255),
    sl-Non-StandardizedPQI-r16    SEQUENCE {
        sl-ResourceType-r16           ENUMERATED {gbr, non-GBR, delayCriticalGBR, spare1}     OPTIONAL,   -- Need R
        sl-PriorityLevel-r16          INTEGER (1..8)                                          OPTIONAL,   -- Need R
        sl-PacketDelayBudget-r16      INTEGER (0..1023)                                       OPTIONAL,   -- Need R
        sl-PacketErrorRate-r16        INTEGER (0..9)                                          OPTIONAL,   -- Need R
        sl-AveragingWindow-r16        INTEGER (0..4095)                                       OPTIONAL,   -- Need R
        sl-MaxDataBurstVolume-r16     INTEGER (0..4095)                                       OPTIONAL,   -- Need R
    ...
   }
}

-- TAG-SL-QOS-PROFILE-STOP
-- ASN1STOP





–	SL-QuantityConfig
The IE SL-QuantityConfig specifies the layer 3 filtering coefficients for NR SL RSRP measurement for a destination.
SL-QuantityConfig information element
-- ASN1START
-- TAG-SL-QUANTITYCONFIG-START

SL-QuantityConfig-r16 ::=               SEQUENCE {
    sl-FilterCoefficientDMRS-r16            FilterCoefficient                             DEFAULT fc4,
    ...
}

-- TAG-SL-QuantityConfig-STOP
-- ASN1STOP



–	SL-RadioBearerConfig
The IE SL-RadioBearerConfig specifies the sidelink DRB configuration information for NR sidelink communication.
SL-RadioBearerConfig information element
-- ASN1START
-- TAG-SL-RADIOBEARERCONFIG-START

SL-RadioBearerConfig-r16 ::=     SEQUENCE {
    slrb-Uu-ConfigIndex-r16           SLRB-Uu-ConfigIndex-r16,
    sl-SDAP-Config-r16                SL-SDAP-Config-r16                                                 OPTIONAL,    -- Cond SLRBSetup
    sl-PDCP-Config-r16                SL-PDCP-Config-r16                                                 OPTIONAL,    -- Cond SLRBSetup
    sl-TransRange-r16                 ENUMERATED {m20, m50, m80, m100, m120, m150, m180, m200, m220, m250, m270, m300, m350, m370,
                                                 m400, m420, m450, m480, m500, m550, m600, m700, m1000, spare9, spare8, spare7, spare6,
                                                 spare5, spare4, spare3, spare2, spare1}                OPTIONAL,    -- Need R
    ...
}

-- TAG-SL-RADIOBEARERCONFIG-STOP
-- ASN1STOP





–	SL-RBSetConfig
The IE SL-RBSetConfig specifies the configuration information for RB set for NR Sidelink Communication.
SL-RBSetConfig information element
-- ASN1START
-- TAG-SL-RBSETCONFIG-START

SL-RBSetConfig-r18 ::=             SEQUENCE {
    sl-RBSetIndex-r18                  INTEGER (0..4),
    sl-NumOfSSSBRepetition-r18         INTEGER (2..9)                          OPTIONAL,     -- Need R
    sl-GapBetweenSSSBRepetition-r18    INTEGER (1..84)                         OPTIONAL      -- Need R
}

-- TAG-SL-RBSETCONFIG-STOP
-- ASN1STOP



–	SL-RelayIndicationMP
The IE SL-RelayIndicationMP is used to indicate the L2 U2N Relay UE supporting RRC connection establishment/resume for MP operation triggered by receiving RemoteUEInformationSidelink containing the connectionForMP as specified in 5.3.3.1a and 5.3.13.1a in Rel-18.
SL-RelayIndicationMP information element
-- ASN1START
-- TAG-SL-RELAYINDICATIONMP-START

SL-RelayIndicationMP-r18 ::=   ENUMERATED {support}

-- TAG-SL-RELAYINDICATIONMP-STOP
-- ASN1STOP

–	SL-RelayUE-Config
The IE SL-RelayUE-Config specifies the configuration information for NR sidelink U2N Relay UE.
SL-RelayUE-Config information element
-- ASN1START
-- TAG-SL-RELAYUE-CONFIG-START

SL-RelayUE-Config-r17::=           SEQUENCE {
    threshHighRelay-r17                RSRP-Range                              OPTIONAL,     -- Need R
    threshLowRelay-r17                 RSRP-Range                              OPTIONAL,     -- Need R
    hystMaxRelay-r17                   Hysteresis                              OPTIONAL,     -- Cond ThreshHighRelay
    hystMinRelay-r17                   Hysteresis                              OPTIONAL      -- Cond ThreshLowRelay
}

-- TAG-SL-RELAYUE-CONFIG-STOP
-- ASN1STOP





–	SL-RelayUE-ConfigU2U
The IE SL-RelayUE-ConfigU2U specifies the threshold configuration information for NR sidelink U2U Relay UE.
SL-RelayUE-ConfigU2U information element
-- ASN1START
-- TAG-SL-RELAYUE-CONFIGU2U-START

SL-RelayUE-ConfigU2U-r18::=           SEQUENCE {
    sl-RSRP-Thresh-DiscConfig-r18         SL-RSRP-Range-r16                                     OPTIONAL,   -- Need R
    sd-RSRP-ThreshDiscConfig-r18          SL-RSRP-Range-r16                                     OPTIONAL,   -- Need R
    sd-hystMaxRelay-r18                   Hysteresis                                            OPTIONAL    -- Cond SD-RSRP-ThreshRelay
}

SL-RelayUE-ConfigU2U-v1840::=         SEQUENCE {
    sl-FilterCoefficientU2U-r18           FilterCoefficient                                     OPTIONAL,   -- Need R
    sd-FilterCoefficientU2U-r18           FilterCoefficient                                     OPTIONAL,   -- Need R
    ...
}

-- TAG-SL-RELAYUE-CONFIGU2U-STOP
-- ASN1STOP





–	SL-RemoteUE-Config
The IE SL-RemoteUE-Config specifies the configuration information for NR sidelink U2N Remote UE.
SL-RemoteUE-Config information element
-- ASN1START
-- TAG-SL-REMOTEUE-CONFIG-START

SL-RemoteUE-Config-r17::=           SEQUENCE {
    threshHighRemote-r17                RSRP-Range                                       OPTIONAL,     -- Need R
    hystMaxRemote-r17                   Hysteresis                                       OPTIONAL,     -- Cond ThreshHighRemote
    sl-ReselectionConfig-r17            SL-ReselectionConfig-r17                         OPTIONAL      -- Need R
}

SL-ReselectionConfig-r17::=         SEQUENCE {
    sl-RSRP-Thresh-r17                  SL-RSRP-Range-r16                                OPTIONAL,     -- Need R
    sl-FilterCoefficientRSRP-r17        FilterCoefficient                                OPTIONAL,     -- Need R
    sl-HystMin-r17                      Hysteresis                                       OPTIONAL      -- Cond SL-RSRP-Thresh
}

-- TAG-SL-REMOTEUE-CONFIG-STOP
-- ASN1STOP







–	SL-RemoteUE-ConfigU2U
The IE SL-RemoteUE-ConfigU2U specifies the threshold configuration information for NR sidelink U2U Remote UE.
SL-RemoteUE-ConfigU2U information element
-- ASN1START
-- TAG-SL-REMOTEUE-CONFIGU2U-START

SL-RemoteUE-ConfigU2U-r18::=           SEQUENCE {
    sl-RSRP-ThreshU2U-r18                  SL-RSRP-Range-r16                                    OPTIONAL,     -- Need R
    sl-HystMinU2U-r18                      Hysteresis                                           OPTIONAL,     -- Cond SL-RSRP-ThreshU2U
    sd-RSRP-ThreshU2U-r18                  SL-RSRP-Range-r16                                    OPTIONAL,     -- Need R
    sd-FilterCoefficientU2U-r18            FilterCoefficient                                    OPTIONAL,     -- Need R
    sd-HystMinU2U-r18                      Hysteresis                                           OPTIONAL      -- Cond SD-RSRP-ThreshU2U
}

SL-RemoteUE-ConfigU2U-v1830::=         SEQUENCE {
    sl-FilterCoefficientU2U-r18            FilterCoefficient                                    OPTIONAL,     -- Need R
    ...
}

-- TAG-SL-REMOTEUE-CONFIGU2U-STOP
-- ASN1STOP





–	SL-ReportConfigList
The IE SL-ReportConfigList concerns a list of SL measurement reporting configurations to add or modify for a destination.
SL-ReportConfigList information element
-- ASN1START
-- TAG-SL-REPORTCONFIGLIST-START

SL-ReportConfigList-r16 ::=           SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxNrofSL-ReportConfigId-r16)) OF SL-ReportConfigInfo-r16

SL-ReportConfigInfo-r16 ::=           SEQUENCE {
    sl-ReportConfigId-r16                     SL-ReportConfigId-r16,
    sl-ReportConfig-r16                       SL-ReportConfig-r16,
    ...
}

SL-ReportConfigId-r16 ::=             INTEGER (1..maxNrofSL-ReportConfigId-r16)

SL-ReportConfig-r16 ::=               SEQUENCE {
    sl-ReportType-r16                     CHOICE {
        sl-Periodical-r16                     SL-PeriodicalReportConfig-r16,
        sl-EventTriggered-r16                 SL-EventTriggerConfig-r16,
        ...
    },
    ...
}

SL-PeriodicalReportConfig-r16 ::=     SEQUENCE {
    sl-ReportInterval-r16                 ReportInterval,
    sl-ReportAmount-r16                   ENUMERATED {r1, r2, r4, r8, r16, r32, r64, infinity},
    sl-ReportQuantity-r16                 SL-MeasReportQuantity-r16,
    sl-RS-Type-r16                        SL-RS-Type-r16,
    ...
}

SL-EventTriggerConfig-r16 ::=        SEQUENCE {
    sl-EventId-r16                       CHOICE {
        eventS1-r16                          SEQUENCE {
            s1-Threshold-r16                     SL-MeasTriggerQuantity-r16,
            sl-ReportOnLeave-r16                 BOOLEAN,
            sl-Hysteresis-r16                    Hysteresis,
            sl-TimeToTrigger-r16                 TimeToTrigger,
            ...
        },
        eventS2-r16                          SEQUENCE {
            s2-Threshold-r16                     SL-MeasTriggerQuantity-r16,
            sl-ReportOnLeave-r16                 BOOLEAN,
            sl-Hysteresis-r16                    Hysteresis,
            sl-TimeToTrigger-r16                 TimeToTrigger,
            ...
        },
        ...
    },
    sl-ReportInterval-r16                ReportInterval,
    sl-ReportAmount-r16                      ENUMERATED {r1, r2, r4, r8, r16, r32, r64, infinity},
    sl-ReportQuantity-r16                    SL-MeasReportQuantity-r16,
    sl-RS-Type-r16                           SL-RS-Type-r16,
    ...
}

SL-MeasReportQuantity-r16 ::=         CHOICE {
    sl-RSRP-r16                           BOOLEAN,
    ...
}

SL-MeasTriggerQuantity-r16 ::=        CHOICE {
    sl-RSRP-r16                           RSRP-Range,
    ...
}

SL-RS-Type-r16 ::=                    ENUMERATED {dmrs, sl-prs, spare2, spare1}

-- TAG-SL-REPORTCONFIGLIST-STOP
-- ASN1STOP







–	SL-ResourcePool
The IE SL-ResourcePool specifies the configuration information for NR sidelink communication resource pool.
SL-ResourcePool information element
-- ASN1START
-- TAG-SL-RESOURCEPOOL-START

SL-ResourcePool-r16 ::=            SEQUENCE {
    sl-PSCCH-Config-r16                SetupRelease { SL-PSCCH-Config-r16 }                                  OPTIONAL,   -- Need M
    sl-PSSCH-Config-r16                SetupRelease { SL-PSSCH-Config-r16 }                                  OPTIONAL,   -- Need M
    sl-PSFCH-Config-r16                SetupRelease { SL-PSFCH-Config-r16 }                                  OPTIONAL,   -- Need M
    sl-SyncAllowed-r16                 SL-SyncAllowed-r16                                                    OPTIONAL,   -- Need M
    sl-SubchannelSize-r16              ENUMERATED {n10, n12, n15, n20, n25, n50, n75, n100}                  OPTIONAL,   -- Need M
    dummy                              INTEGER (10..160)                                                     OPTIONAL,   -- Need M
    sl-StartRB-Subchannel-r16          INTEGER (0..265)                                                      OPTIONAL,   -- Need M
    sl-NumSubchannel-r16               INTEGER (1..27)                                                       OPTIONAL,   -- Need M
    sl-Additional-MCS-Table-r16        ENUMERATED {qam256, qam64LowSE, qam256-qam64LowSE }                   OPTIONAL,   -- Need M
    sl-ThreshS-RSSI-CBR-r16            INTEGER (0..45)                                                       OPTIONAL,   -- Need M
    sl-TimeWindowSizeCBR-r16           ENUMERATED {ms100, slot100}                                           OPTIONAL,   -- Need M
    sl-TimeWindowSizeCR-r16            ENUMERATED {ms1000, slot1000}                                         OPTIONAL,   -- Need M
    sl-PTRS-Config-r16                 SL-PTRS-Config-r16                                                    OPTIONAL,    -- Need M
    sl-UE-SelectedConfigRP-r16         SL-UE-SelectedConfigRP-r16                                            OPTIONAL,   -- Need M
    sl-RxParametersNcell-r16           SEQUENCE {
        sl-TDD-Configuration-r16           TDD-UL-DL-ConfigCommon                                            OPTIONAL,   -- Need M
        sl-SyncConfigIndex-r16             INTEGER (0..15)
    }                                                                                                        OPTIONAL,   -- Need M
    sl-ZoneConfigMCR-List-r16          SEQUENCE (SIZE (16)) OF SL-ZoneConfigMCR-r16                          OPTIONAL,   -- Need M
    sl-FilterCoefficient-r16           FilterCoefficient                                                     OPTIONAL,   -- Need M
    sl-RB-Number-r16                   INTEGER (10..275)                                                     OPTIONAL,   -- Need M
    sl-PreemptionEnable-r16            ENUMERATED {enabled, pl1, pl2, pl3, pl4, pl5, pl6, pl7, pl8}          OPTIONAL,   -- Need R
    sl-PriorityThreshold-UL-URLLC-r16  INTEGER (1..9)                                                        OPTIONAL,   -- Need M
    sl-PriorityThreshold-r16           INTEGER (1..9)                                                        OPTIONAL,   -- Need M
    sl-X-Overhead-r16                  ENUMERATED {n0,n3, n6, n9}                                            OPTIONAL,   -- Need S
    sl-PowerControl-r16                SL-PowerControl-r16                                                   OPTIONAL,   -- Need M
    sl-TxPercentageList-r16            SL-TxPercentageList-r16                                               OPTIONAL,   -- Need M
    sl-MinMaxMCS-List-r16              SL-MinMaxMCS-List-r16                                                 OPTIONAL,   -- Need M
    ...,
    [[
    sl-TimeResource-r16                BIT STRING (SIZE (10..160))                                           OPTIONAL    -- Need M
    ]],
    [[
    sl-PBPS-CPS-Config-r17             SetupRelease { SL-PBPS-CPS-Config-r17 }                               OPTIONAL,   -- Need M
    sl-InterUE-CoordinationConfig-r17  SetupRelease { SL-InterUE-CoordinationConfig-r17 }                    OPTIONAL    -- Need M
    ]],
    [[
    sl-CPE-StartingPositionsPSCCH-PSSCH-InitiateCOT-List-r18
                                       SetupRelease { SL-CPE-StartingPositionsPSCCH-PSSCH-List-r18 }         OPTIONAL,   -- Need M
    sl-CPE-StartingPositionsPSCCH-PSSCH-InitiateCOT-Default-r18 INTEGER (1..9)                               OPTIONAL,   -- Need M
    sl-CPE-StartingPositionsPSCCH-PSSCH-WithinCOT-List-r18
                                       SetupRelease { SL-CPE-StartingPositionsPSCCH-PSSCH-List-r18 }         OPTIONAL,   -- Need M
    sl-CPE-StartingPositionsPSCCH-PSSCH-WithinCOT-Default-r18 INTEGER (1..9)                                 OPTIONAL,   -- Need M
    sl-Type1-LBT-BlockingOption1-r18   ENUMERATED {enabled}                                                  OPTIONAL,   -- Need R
    sl-Type1-LBT-BlockingOption2-r18   ENUMERATED {enabled}                                                  OPTIONAL,   -- Need R
    sl-NumInterlacePerSubchannel-r18   ENUMERATED {sc1, sc2}                                                 OPTIONAL,   -- Need M
    sl-NumReferencePRBs-OfInterlace-r18 ENUMERATED {prb10, prb11}                                            OPTIONAL,   -- Need M
    sl-TransmissionStructureForPSFCH-r18 ENUMERATED {commonInterlace, dedicatedInterlace}                    OPTIONAL,   -- Need M
    sl-NumDedicatedPRBs-ForPSFCH-r18   ENUMERATED {prb1, prb2, prb5}                                         OPTIONAL,   -- Need M
    sl-NumPSFCH-Occasions-r18          ENUMERATED {o1, o2, o3, o4}                                           OPTIONAL,   -- Need M
    sl-PSFCH-CommonInterlaceIndex-r18  INTEGER (0..9)                                                        OPTIONAL,   -- Need M
    sl-CPE-StartingPositionPSFCH-r18   INTEGER (1..9)                                                        OPTIONAL,   -- Need M
    sl-NumRefSymbolLength-r18          ENUMERATED {sym7, sym8, sym9, sym10, sym11, sym12, sym13, sym14}      OPTIONAL,   -- Need M
    sl-PSFCH-RB-SetList-r18            SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..4)) OF BIT STRING (SIZE (10..275))                 OPTIONAL,   -- Need M
    sl-IUC-RB-SetList-r18              SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..4)) OF BIT STRING (SIZE (10..275))                 OPTIONAL,   -- Need M
    sl-PSFCH-PowerOffset-r18           INTEGER (0..10)                                                       OPTIONAL,   -- Need M
    sl-RBSetIndexOfResourcePool-r18    SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..5)) OF INTEGER (0..4)                              OPTIONAL,   -- Need M
    sl-A2X-Service-r18                 ENUMERATED {brid, daa, bridAndDAA, spare1}                            OPTIONAL,   -- Cond A2X
    sl-PRS-ResourcesSharedSL-PRS-RP-r18 SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..17)) OF SL-PRS-ResourceSharedSL-PRS-RP-r18        OPTIONAL,   -- Need M
    numSym-SL-PRS-2ndStageSCI-r18      INTEGER (1..4)                                                        OPTIONAL,   -- Need M
    sl-SCI-basedSL-PRS-TxTriggerSCI2-D-r18 BOOLEAN                                                           OPTIONAL    -- Need M
    ]]
}

SL-CPE-StartingPositionsPSCCH-PSSCH-List-r18 ::= SEQUENCE (SIZE (8)) OF SL-CPE-StartingPositionsPSCCH-PSSCH-r18

SL-CPE-StartingPositionsPSCCH-PSSCH-r18 ::= SEQUENCE {
    sl-Priority-r18                             INTEGER (1..8),
    sl-CPE-StartingPositions-r18                SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..9)) OF INTEGER (1..9)
}

SL-ZoneConfigMCR-r16 ::=               SEQUENCE {
    sl-ZoneConfigMCR-Index-r16             INTEGER (0..15),
    sl-TransRange-r16                      ENUMERATED {m20, m50, m80, m100, m120, m150, m180, m200, m220, m250, m270, m300, m350,
                                                       m370, m400, m420, m450, m480, m500, m550, m600, m700, m1000, spare9, spare8,
                                                       spare7, spare6, spare5, spare4, spare3, spare2, spare1}
                                                                                                             OPTIONAL,   -- Need M
    sl-ZoneConfig-r16                      SL-ZoneConfig-r16                                                 OPTIONAL,   -- Need M
    ...
}

SL-SyncAllowed-r16 ::=                 SEQUENCE {
    gnss-Sync-r16                          ENUMERATED {true}                                                 OPTIONAL,   -- Need R
    gnbEnb-Sync-r16                        ENUMERATED {true}                                                 OPTIONAL,   -- Need R
    ue-Sync-r16                            ENUMERATED {true}                                                 OPTIONAL    -- Need R
}

SL-PSCCH-Config-r16 ::=                SEQUENCE {
    sl-TimeResourcePSCCH-r16               ENUMERATED {n2, n3}                                               OPTIONAL,   -- Need M
    sl-FreqResourcePSCCH-r16               ENUMERATED {n10,n12, n15, n20, n25}                               OPTIONAL,   -- Need M
    sl-DMRS-ScrambleID-r16                 INTEGER (0..65535)                                                OPTIONAL,   -- Need M
    sl-NumReservedBits-r16                 INTEGER (2..4)                                                    OPTIONAL,   -- Need M
   ...
}

SL-PSSCH-Config-r16 ::=                SEQUENCE {
    sl-PSSCH-DMRS-TimePatternList-r16      SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..3)) OF INTEGER (2..4)                          OPTIONAL,   -- Need M
    sl-BetaOffsets2ndSCI-r16               SEQUENCE (SIZE (4)) OF SL-BetaOffsets-r16                         OPTIONAL,   -- Need M
    sl-Scaling-r16                         ENUMERATED {f0p5, f0p65, f0p8, f1}                                OPTIONAL,   -- Need M
   ...
}

SL-PSFCH-Config-r16 ::=                SEQUENCE {
    sl-PSFCH-Period-r16                    ENUMERATED {sl0, sl1, sl2, sl4}                                   OPTIONAL,   -- Need M
    sl-PSFCH-RB-Set-r16                    BIT STRING (SIZE (10..275))                                       OPTIONAL,   -- Need M
    sl-NumMuxCS-Pair-r16                   ENUMERATED {n1, n2, n3, n6}                                       OPTIONAL,   -- Need M
    sl-MinTimeGapPSFCH-r16                 ENUMERATED {sl2, sl3}                                             OPTIONAL,   -- Need M
    sl-PSFCH-HopID-r16                     INTEGER (0..1023)                                                 OPTIONAL,   -- Need M
    sl-PSFCH-CandidateResourceType-r16     ENUMERATED {startSubCH, allocSubCH}                               OPTIONAL,   -- Need M
   ...
}
SL-PTRS-Config-r16 ::=                 SEQUENCE {
    sl-PTRS-FreqDensity-r16                SEQUENCE (SIZE (2)) OF INTEGER (1..276)                           OPTIONAL,   -- Need M
    sl-PTRS-TimeDensity-r16                SEQUENCE (SIZE (3)) OF INTEGER (0..29)                            OPTIONAL,   -- Need M
    sl-PTRS-RE-Offset-r16                  ENUMERATED {offset01, offset10, offset11}                         OPTIONAL,   -- Need M
    ...
}

SL-UE-SelectedConfigRP-r16 ::=         SEQUENCE {
    sl-CBR-PriorityTxConfigList-r16        SL-CBR-PriorityTxConfigList-r16                                  OPTIONAL,   -- Need M
    sl-Thres-RSRP-List-r16                 SL-Thres-RSRP-List-r16                                            OPTIONAL,   -- Need M
    sl-MultiReserveResource-r16            ENUMERATED {enabled}                                              OPTIONAL,   -- Need M
    sl-MaxNumPerReserve-r16                ENUMERATED {n2, n3}                                               OPTIONAL,   -- Need M
    sl-SensingWindow-r16                   ENUMERATED {ms100, ms1100}                                        OPTIONAL,   -- Need M
    sl-SelectionWindowList-r16             SL-SelectionWindowList-r16                                        OPTIONAL,   -- Need M
    sl-ResourceReservePeriodList-r16       SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..16)) OF SL-ResourceReservePeriod-r16           OPTIONAL,   -- Need M
    sl-RS-ForSensing-r16                   ENUMERATED {pscch, pssch},
    ...,
    [[
    sl-CBR-PriorityTxConfigList-v1650      SL-CBR-PriorityTxConfigList-v1650                                 OPTIONAL    -- Need M
    ]],
    [[
    sl-NRPSSCH-EUTRA-ThresRSRP-List-r18    SL-Thres-RSRP-List-r16                                            OPTIONAL,   -- Need S
    sl-NRPSFCH-EUTRA-ThresRSRP-List-r18    SL-Thres-RSRP-List-r16                                            OPTIONAL    -- Need S
    ]]
}

SL-ResourceReservePeriod-r16 ::=       CHOICE {
    sl-ResourceReservePeriod1-r16          ENUMERATED {ms0, ms100, ms200, ms300, ms400, ms500, ms600, ms700, ms800, ms900, ms1000},
    sl-ResourceReservePeriod2-r16          INTEGER (1..99)
}

SL-SelectionWindowList-r16 ::=         SEQUENCE (SIZE (8)) OF SL-SelectionWindowConfig-r16

SL-SelectionWindowConfig-r16 ::=       SEQUENCE {
    sl-Priority-r16                        INTEGER (1..8),
    sl-SelectionWindow-r16                 ENUMERATED {n1, n5, n10, n20}
}

SL-TxPercentageList-r16 ::=            SEQUENCE (SIZE (8)) OF SL-TxPercentageConfig-r16

SL-TxPercentageConfig-r16 ::=          SEQUENCE {
    sl-Priority-r16                        INTEGER (1..8),
    sl-TxPercentage-r16                    ENUMERATED {p20, p35, p50}
}

SL-MinMaxMCS-List-r16 ::=              SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..3)) OF SL-MinMaxMCS-Config-r16

SL-MinMaxMCS-Config-r16 ::=            SEQUENCE {
    sl-MCS-Table-r16                       ENUMERATED {qam64, qam256, qam64LowSE},
    sl-MinMCS-PSSCH-r16                    INTEGER (0..27),
    sl-MaxMCS-PSSCH-r16                    INTEGER (0..31)
}

SL-BetaOffsets-r16 ::=                 INTEGER (0..31)

SL-PowerControl-r16 ::=    SEQUENCE {
    sl-MaxTransPower-r16       INTEGER (-30..33),
    sl-Alpha-PSSCH-PSCCH-r16   ENUMERATED {alpha0, alpha04, alpha05, alpha06, alpha07, alpha08, alpha09, alpha1}  OPTIONAL,   -- Need M
    dl-Alpha-PSSCH-PSCCH-r16   ENUMERATED {alpha0, alpha04, alpha05, alpha06, alpha07, alpha08, alpha09, alpha1}  OPTIONAL,   -- Need S
    sl-P0-PSSCH-PSCCH-r16      INTEGER (-16..15)                                                                  OPTIONAL,   -- Need S
    dl-P0-PSSCH-PSCCH-r16      INTEGER (-16..15)                                                                  OPTIONAL,   -- Need M
    dl-Alpha-PSFCH-r16         ENUMERATED {alpha0, alpha04, alpha05, alpha06, alpha07, alpha08, alpha09, alpha1}  OPTIONAL,   -- Need S
    dl-P0-PSFCH-r16            INTEGER (-16..15)                                                                  OPTIONAL,   -- Need M
    ...,
    [[
    dl-P0-PSSCH-PSCCH-r17      INTEGER (-202..24)                                                                 OPTIONAL,   -- Need M
    sl-P0-PSSCH-PSCCH-r17      INTEGER (-202..24)                                                                 OPTIONAL,   -- Need S
    dl-P0-PSFCH-r17            INTEGER (-202..24)                                                                 OPTIONAL    -- Need M
    ]]
}

SL-PRS-ResourceSharedSL-PRS-RP-r18::= SEQUENCE {
    sl-PRS-ResourceID-r18                 INTEGER (0..16),
    mNumberOfSymbols-r18                  INTEGER (1..9),
    sl-PRS-CombSizeN-AndReOffset-r18  CHOICE {
        n2-r18                            INTEGER (0..1),
        n4-r18                            INTEGER (0..3),
        dummy1                            INTEGER (0..5),
        ...
    }                                                                                                            OPTIONAL     -- Need M
}

-- TAG-SL-RESOURCEPOOL-STOP
-- ASN1STOP



























–	SL-RLC-BearerConfig
The IE SL-RLC-BearerConfig specifies the SL RLC bearer configuration information for NR sidelink communication.
SL-RLC-BearerConfig information element
-- ASN1START
-- TAG-SL-RLC-BEARERCONFIG-START

SL-RLC-BearerConfig-r16 ::=                   SEQUENCE {
    sl-RLC-BearerConfigIndex-r16                  SL-RLC-BearerConfigIndex-r16,
    sl-ServedRadioBearer-r16                      SLRB-Uu-ConfigIndex-r16                          OPTIONAL,   -- Cond LCH-SetupOnly
    sl-RLC-Config-r16                             SL-RLC-Config-r16                                OPTIONAL,   -- Cond LCH-Setup
    sl-MAC-LogicalChannelConfig-r16               SL-LogicalChannelConfig-r16                      OPTIONAL,   -- Cond LCH-Setup
    ...,
    [[
    sl-RLC-BearerConfigIndex-v1800                SL-RLC-BearerConfigIndex-v1800                   OPTIONAL    -- Need R
    ]]
}

-- TAG-SL-RLC-BEARERCONFIG-STOP
-- ASN1STOP





–	SL-RLC-BearerConfigIndex
The IE SL-RLC-BearerConfigIndex is used to identify a SL RLC bearer configuration.
SL-RLC-BearerConfigIndex information element
-- ASN1START
-- TAG-SL-RLC-BEARERCONFIGINDEX-START

SL-RLC-BearerConfigIndex-r16 ::=                    INTEGER (1..maxSL-LCID-r16)

SL-RLC-BearerConfigIndex-v1800 ::=                  INTEGER (maxSL-LCID-Plus1-r18..maxSL-LCID-r18)

-- TAG-RLC-BEARERCONFIGINDEX-STOP
-- ASN1STOP

–	SL-RLC-ChannelConfig
The IE SL-RLC-ChannelConfig specifies the configuration information for PC5 Relay RLC channel between L2 U2N Relay UE and L2 U2N Remote UE, or between L2 U2U Remote UE and L2 U2U Relay UE.
SL-RLC-ChannelConfig information element
-- ASN1START
-- TAG-SL-RLC-RLC-CHANNEL-CONFIG-START

SL-RLC-ChannelConfig-r17 ::=                  SEQUENCE {
    sl-RLC-ChannelID-r17                          SL-RLC-ChannelID-r17,
    sl-RLC-Config-r17                             SL-RLC-Config-r16                                 OPTIONAL,   -- Need M
    sl-MAC-LogicalChannelConfig-r17               SL-LogicalChannelConfig-r16                       OPTIONAL,   -- Need M
    sl-PacketDelayBudget-r17                      INTEGER (0..1023)                                 OPTIONAL,   -- Need M
    ...}

-- TAG-SL-RLC-CHANNEL-CONFIG-STOP
-- ASN1STOP



–	SL-RLC-ChannelID
The IE SL-RLC-ChannelID is used to identify a PC5 Relay RLC channel in the link between L2 U2N Relay UE and L2 U2N Remote UE, or between L2 U2U Relay UE and L2 U2U Remote UE.
SL-RLC-ChannelID information element
-- ASN1START
-- TAG-SL-RLC-CHANNELID-START

SL-RLC-ChannelID-r17 ::=    INTEGER (1..maxSL-LCID-r16)

-- TAG-SL-RLC-CHANNELID-STOP
-- ASN1STOP

–	SL-RLC-Config
The IE SL-RLC-Config is used to specify the RLC configuration of sidelink DRB. RLC AM configuration is only applicable to the unicast NR sidelink communication.
SL-RLC-Config information element
-- ASN1START
-- TAG-SL-RLC-CONFIG-START

SL-RLC-Config-r16 ::=                        CHOICE {
    sl-AM-RLC-r16                                SEQUENCE {
        sl-SN-FieldLengthAM-r16                      SN-FieldLengthAM                               OPTIONAL,   -- Cond SLRBSetup
        sl-T-PollRetransmit-r16                      T-PollRetransmit,
        sl-PollPDU-r16                                   PollPDU,
        sl-PollByte-r16                                  PollByte,
        sl-MaxRetxThreshold-r16                          ENUMERATED { t1, t2, t3, t4, t6, t8, t16, t32 },
    ...
    },
    sl-UM-RLC-r16                                SEQUENCE {
        sl-SN-FieldLengthUM-r16                      SN-FieldLengthUM                               OPTIONAL,    -- Cond SLRBSetup
    ...
    },
    ...
}

-- TAG-SL-RLC-CONFIG-STOP
-- ASN1STOP





–	SL-ScheduledConfig
The IE SL-ScheduledConfig specifies sidelink communication/positioning configurations used for network scheduled NR sidelink communication/positioning.
SL-ScheduledConfig information element
-- ASN1START
-- TAG-SL-SCHEDULEDCONFIG-START

SL-ScheduledConfig-r16 ::=                   SEQUENCE {
    sl-RNTI-r16                                  RNTI-Value,
    mac-MainConfigSL-r16                         MAC-MainConfigSL-r16                                     OPTIONAL,    -- Need M
    sl-CS-RNTI-r16                               RNTI-Value                                               OPTIONAL,    -- Need M
    sl-PSFCH-ToPUCCH-r16                         SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..8)) OF INTEGER (0..15)                OPTIONAL,    -- Need M
    sl-ConfiguredGrantConfigList-r16             SL-ConfiguredGrantConfigList-r16                         OPTIONAL,    -- Need M
    ...,
    [[
    sl-DCI-ToSL-Trans-r16                        SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..8)) OF INTEGER (1..32)                OPTIONAL     -- Need M
    ]],
    [[
    sl-ConfiguredGrantConfigDedicated-SL-PRS-RP-List-r18 SL-ConfiguredGrantConfigDedicated-SL-PRS-RP-List-r18  OPTIONAL, -- Need M
    sl-PRS-RNTI-r18                              RNTI-Value                                               OPTIONAL,    -- Need M
    sl-PRS-CS-RNTI-r18                           RNTI-Value                                               OPTIONAL     -- Need M
    ]]
}

MAC-MainConfigSL-r16 ::=                     SEQUENCE {
    sl-BSR-Config-r16                            BSR-Config                                           OPTIONAL,    -- Need M
    ul-PrioritizationThres-r16                   INTEGER (1..16)                                      OPTIONAL,    -- Need M
    sl-PrioritizationThres-r16                   INTEGER (1..8)                                       OPTIONAL,    -- Need M
    ...
}

SL-ConfiguredGrantConfigList-r16 ::=       SEQUENCE {
    sl-ConfiguredGrantConfigToReleaseList-r16  SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxNrofCG-SL-r16)) OF SL-ConfigIndexCG-r16         OPTIONAL, -- Need N
    sl-ConfiguredGrantConfigToAddModList-r16   SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxNrofCG-SL-r16)) OF SL-ConfiguredGrantConfig-r16 OPTIONAL  -- Need N
}

SL-ConfiguredGrantConfigDedicated-SL-PRS-RP-List-r18 ::= SEQUENCE {
    sl-ConfiguredGrantConfigDedicated-SL-PRS-RPToReleaseList-r18  SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxNrofCG-SL-r16)) OF SL-ConfigIndexCG-r16
                                                                                                               OPTIONAL, -- Need N
    sl-ConfiguredGrantConfigDedicated-SL-PRS-RPToAddModList-r18
        SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxNrofCG-SL-r16)) OF SL-ConfiguredGrantConfigDedicatedSL-PRS-RP-r18                OPTIONAL  -- Need N
}

-- TAG-SL-SCHEDULEDCONFIG-STOP
-- ASN1STOP





–	SL-SDAP-Config
The IE SL-SDAP-Config is used to set the configurable SDAP parameters for a Sidelink DRB.
SL-SDAP-Config information element
-- ASN1START
-- TAG-SL-SDAP-CONFIG-START

SL-SDAP-Config-r16 ::=                  SEQUENCE {
    sl-SDAP-Header-r16                      ENUMERATED {present, absent},
    sl-DefaultRB-r16                        BOOLEAN,
    sl-MappedQoS-Flows-r16                  CHOICE {
        sl-MappedQoS-FlowsList-r16              SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxNrofSL-QFIs-r16)) OF SL-QoS-Profile-r16,
        sl-MappedQoS-FlowsListDedicated-r16     SL-MappedQoS-FlowsListDedicated-r16
    }                                                                                                           OPTIONAL,   -- Need M
    sl-CastType-r16                        ENUMERATED {broadcast, groupcast, unicast, spare1}                   OPTIONAL,   -- Need M
    ...
}

SL-MappedQoS-FlowsListDedicated-r16 ::= SEQUENCE {
    sl-MappedQoS-FlowsToAddList-r16         SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxNrofSL-QFIs-r16)) OF SL-QoS-FlowIdentity-r16  OPTIONAL,    -- Need N
    sl-MappedQoS-FlowsToReleaseList-r16      SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxNrofSL-QFIs-r16)) OF SL-QoS-FlowIdentity-r16  OPTIONAL     -- Need N
}

-- TAG-SL-SDAP-CONFIG-STOP
-- ASN1STOP



–	SL-ServingCellInfo
The IE SL-ServingCellInfo is used to indicate the L2 U2N Relay UE's PCell/camping cell, which is considered as PCell/camping cell by the L2 U2N Remote UEs connecting with this L2 U2N Relay UE.
SL-ServingCellInfo information element
-- ASN1START
-- TAG-SL-SERVINGCELLINFO-START

SL-ServingCellInfo-r17 ::=     SEQUENCE {
    sl-PhysCellId-r17              PhysCellId,
    sl-CarrierFreqNR-r17           ARFCN-ValueNR
}

-- TAG-SL-SERVINGCELLINFO-STOP
-- ASN1STOP



–	SL-SourceIdentity
The IE SL-SourceIdentity is used to identify a source of a NR sidelink communication.
SL-SourceIdentity information element
-- ASN1START
-- TAG-SL-SOURCEIDENTITY-START

SL-SourceIdentity-r17 ::=   BIT STRING (SIZE (24))

-- TAG-SL-SOURCEIDENTITY-STOP
-- ASN1STOP

–	SL-SRAP-Config
The IE SL-SRAP-Config is used to set the configurable SRAP parameters used by L2 U2N Relay UE and L2 U2N Remote UE as specified in TS 38.351 [66].
SL-SRAP-Config information element
-- ASN1START
-- TAG-SL-SRAP-CONFIG-START

SL-SRAP-Config-r17 ::=                  SEQUENCE {
    sl-LocalIdentity-r17                    INTEGER (0..255)                                                 OPTIONAL, -- Need M
    sl-MappingToAddModList-r17              SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxLC-ID)) OF SL-MappingToAddMod-r17          OPTIONAL, -- Need N
    sl-MappingToReleaseList-r17             SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxLC-ID)) OF SL-RemoteUE-RB-Identity-r17     OPTIONAL, -- Need N
    ...
}

SL-MappingToAddMod-r17 ::=              SEQUENCE {
    sl-RemoteUE-RB-Identity-r17             SL-RemoteUE-RB-Identity-r17,
    sl-EgressRLC-ChannelUu-r17              Uu-RelayRLC-ChannelID-r17                                        OPTIONAL, -- Cond L2RelayUE
    sl-EgressRLC-ChannelPC5-r17             SL-RLC-ChannelID-r17                                             OPTIONAL, -- Need N
    ...
}

SL-RemoteUE-RB-Identity-r17 ::=         CHOICE {
    srb-Identity-r17                        INTEGER (0..3),
    drb-Identity-r17                        DRB-Identity,
    ...
}

-- TAG-SL-SRAP-CONFIG-STOP
-- ASN1STOP





–	SL-SRAP-ConfigU2U
The IE SL-SRAP-ConfigU2U is used to set the configurable SRAP parameters used by L2 U2U Relay UE and L2 U2U Remote UE as specified in TS 38.351 [66].
SL-SRAP-ConfigU2U information element
-- ASN1START
-- TAG-SL-SRAP-CONFIGU2U-START

SL-SRAP-ConfigU2U-r18 ::=               SEQUENCE {
    sl-MappingToAddMod-U2U-List-r18         SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxSL-LCID-r16)) OF SL-MappingConfig-U2U-r18       OPTIONAL, -- Need N
    sl-MappingToRelease-U2U-List-r18        SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxSL-LCID-r16)) OF SLRB-Uu-ConfigIndex-r16        OPTIONAL  -- Need N
}

SL-MappingConfig-U2U-r18 ::=            SEQUENCE {
    sl-RemoteUE-SLRB-Identity-r18           SLRB-Uu-ConfigIndex-r16,
    sl-EgressRLC-ChannelPC5-r18             SL-RLC-ChannelID-r17,
    ...
}

-- TAG-SL-SRAP-CONFIGU2U-STOP
-- ASN1STOP



–	SL-SyncConfig
The IE SL-SyncConfig specifies the configuration information concerning reception of synchronisation signals from neighbouring cells as well as concerning the transmission of synchronisation signals for sidelink communication.
SL-SyncConfig information element
-- ASN1START
-- TAG-SL-SYNCCONFIG-START

SL-SyncConfigList-r16 ::=          SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxSL-SyncConfig-r16)) OF SL-SyncConfig-r16

SL-SyncConfig-r16 ::=              SEQUENCE {
    sl-SyncRefMinHyst-r16              ENUMERATED {dB0, dB3, dB6, dB9, dB12}                                   OPTIONAL,    -- Need R
    sl-SyncRefDiffHyst-r16             ENUMERATED {dB0, dB3, dB6, dB9, dB12, dBinf}                            OPTIONAL,    -- Need R
    sl-FilterCoefficient-r16           FilterCoefficient                                                       OPTIONAL,    -- Need R
    sl-SSB-TimeAllocation1-r16         SL-SSB-TimeAllocation-r16                                               OPTIONAL,    -- Need R
    sl-SSB-TimeAllocation2-r16         SL-SSB-TimeAllocation-r16                                               OPTIONAL,    -- Need R
    sl-SSB-TimeAllocation3-r16         SL-SSB-TimeAllocation-r16                                               OPTIONAL,    -- Need R
    sl-SSID-r16                        INTEGER (0..671)                                                        OPTIONAL,    -- Need R
    txParameters-r16                   SEQUENCE {
        syncTxThreshIC-r16                 SL-RSRP-Range-r16                                                   OPTIONAL,    -- Need R
        syncTxThreshOoC-r16                SL-RSRP-Range-r16                                                   OPTIONAL,    -- Need R
        syncInfoReserved-r16               BIT STRING (SIZE (2))                                               OPTIONAL     -- Need R
    },
    gnss-Sync-r16                      ENUMERATED {true}                                                       OPTIONAL,    -- Need R
    ...
}

SL-RSRP-Range-r16 ::=                  INTEGER (0..13)

SL-SSB-TimeAllocation-r16 ::=          SEQUENCE {
    sl-NumSSB-WithinPeriod-r16             ENUMERATED {n1, n2, n4, n8, n16, n32, n64}                          OPTIONAL,    -- Need R
    sl-TimeOffsetSSB-r16                   INTEGER (0..1279)                                                   OPTIONAL,    -- Need R
    sl-TimeInterval-r16                    INTEGER (0..639)                                                    OPTIONAL     -- Need R
}

-- TAG-SL-SYNCCONFIG-STOP
-- ASN1STOP



–	SL-Thres-RSRP-List
IE SL-Thres-RSRP-List indicates a threshold used for sensing based UE autonomous resource selection (see TS 38.215 [9]). A resource is excluded if it is indicated or reserved by a decoded SCI and PSSCH/PSCCH RSRP in the associated data resource is above the threshold defined by IE SL-Thres-RSRP-List. A NR sidelink resource is excluded if the corresponding PSFCH transmission occasions overlap with resources indicated or reserved by the decoded EUTRA SCI in time domain and EUTRA PSSCH RSRP in the associated data resource is above the threshold defined by IE sl-NRPSFCH-EUTRA-ThresRSRP-List. A NR sidelink resource is excluded if it is indicated or reserved by the decoded EUTRA SCI and EUTRA PSSCH RSRP in the associated data resource is above the threshold defined by IE sl-NRPSSCH-EUTRA-ThresRSRP-List. Value 0 corresponds to minus infinity dBm, value 1 corresponds to -128dBm, value 2 corresponds to -126dBm, value n corresponds to (-128 + (n-1)*2) dBm and so on, value 66 corresponds to infinity dBm.
SL-Thres-RSRP-List information element
-- ASN1START
-- TAG-SL-THRES-RSRP-LIST-START

SL-Thres-RSRP-List-r16 ::=    SEQUENCE (SIZE (64)) OF SL-Thres-RSRP-r16

SL-Thres-RSRP-r16 ::=         INTEGER (0..66)

-- TAG-SL-THRES-RSRP-LIST-STOP
-- ASN1STOP

–	SL-TxPower
The IE SL-TxPower is used to limit the UE's sidelink transmission power on a carrier frequency. The unit is dBm. Value minusinfinity corresponds to –infinity.
SL-TxPower information element
-- ASN1START
-- TAG-SL-TXPOWER-START

SL-TxPower-r16 ::=                    CHOICE{
    minusinfinity-r16                     NULL,
    txPower-r16                           INTEGER (-30..33)
}

-- TAG-SL-TXPOWER-STOP
-- ASN1STOP

–	SL-TypeTxSync
The IE SL-TypeTxSync indicates the synchronization reference type.
SL-TypeTxSync information element
-- ASN1START
-- TAG-SL-TYPETXSYNC-START

SL-TypeTxSync-r16 ::=                     ENUMERATED {gnss, gnbEnb, ue}

-- TAG-SL-TYPETXSYNC-STOP
-- ASN1STOP

–	SL-UE-SelectedConfig
IE SL-UE-SelectedConfig specifies sidelink communication/positioning configurations used for UE autonomous resource selection.
SL-UE-SelectedConfig information element
-- ASN1START
-- TAG-SL-UE-SELECTEDCONFIG-START

SL-UE-SelectedConfig-r16 ::=                 SEQUENCE {
    sl-PSSCH-TxConfigList-r16                    SL-PSSCH-TxConfigList-r16                                   OPTIONAL,    -- Cond SIB12
    sl-ProbResourceKeep-r16                      ENUMERATED {v0, v0dot2, v0dot4, v0dot6, v0dot8}             OPTIONAL,    -- Need R
    sl-ReselectAfter-r16                         ENUMERATED {n1, n2, n3, n4, n5, n6, n7, n8, n9}             OPTIONAL,    -- Need R
    sl-CBR-CommonTxConfigList-r16                SL-CBR-CommonTxConfigList-r16                               OPTIONAL,    -- Need R
    ul-PrioritizationThres-r16                   INTEGER (1..16)                                             OPTIONAL,    -- Need R
    sl-PrioritizationThres-r16                   INTEGER (1..8)                                              OPTIONAL,    -- Need R
    ...,
    [[
    sl-CBR-CommonTxDedicatedSL-PRS-RP-List-r18  SL-CBR-CommonTxDedicatedSL-PRS-RP-List-r18                   OPTIONAL  -- Cond notSIB12
    ]]
}

-- TAG-SL-UE-SELECTEDCONFIG-STOP
-- ASN1STOP





–	SL-ZoneConfig
The IE SL-ZoneConfig is used to configure the zone ID related parameters.
SL-ZoneConfig information element
-- ASN1START
-- TAG-SL-ZONECONFIG-START

SL-ZoneConfig-r16 ::=              SEQUENCE {
    sl-ZoneLength-r16                  ENUMERATED { m5, m10, m20, m30, m40, m50, spare2, spare1},
    ...
}

-- TAG-SL-ZONECONFIG-STOP
-- ASN1STOP



–	SLRB-Uu-ConfigIndex
The IE SLRB-Uu-ConfigIndex is used to identify a sidelink DRB configuration from the network side, or to indicate an end-to-end sidelink DRB by L2 U2U Relay UE in SidelinkUEInformation message.
SLRB-Uu-ConfigIndex information element
-- ASN1START
-- TAG-SLRB-UU-CONFIGINDEX-START

SLRB-Uu-ConfigIndex-r16 ::=                    INTEGER (1..maxNrofSLRB-r16)

-- TAG-SLRB-UU-CONFIGINDEX-STOP
-- ASN1STOP

6.3.6	MBS information elements
–	CarrierFreqListMBS
The IE CarrierFreqListMBS is used to inform network of the frequencies on which the UE is receiving or interested to receive MBS broadcast service via a broadcast MRB.
CarrierFreqListMBS information element
-- ASN1START
-- TAG-CARRIERFREQLISTMBS-START

CarrierFreqListMBS-r17 ::=      SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxFreqMBS-r17)) OF ARFCN-ValueNR

-- TAG-CARRIERFREQLISTMBS-STOP
-- ASN1STOP

–	CFR-ConfigMCCH-MTCH
The IE CFR-ConfigMCCH-MTCH is used to configure the common frequency resource used for MCCH, multicast MCCH and MTCH reception.
CFR-ConfigMCCH-MTCH information element
-- ASN1START
-- TAG-CFR-CONFIGMCCH-MTCH-START

CFR-ConfigMCCH-MTCH-r17 ::= SEQUENCE {
    locationAndBandwidthBroadcast-r17          LocationAndBandwidthBroadcast-r17  OPTIONAL,  -- Need S
    pdsch-ConfigMCCH-r17                       PDSCH-ConfigBroadcast-r17          OPTIONAL,  -- Need S
    commonControlResourceSetExt-r17            ControlResourceSet                 OPTIONAL   -- Cond NotSIB1CommonControlResource
}

LocationAndBandwidthBroadcast-r17 ::= CHOICE {
    sameAsSib1ConfiguredLocationAndBW          NULL,
    locationAndBandwidth                       INTEGER (0..37949)
}

-- TAG-CFR-CONFIGMCCH-MTCH-STOP
-- ASN1STOP





–	DRX-ConfigPTM
The IE DRX-ConfigPTM is used to configure DRX related parameters for PTM transmission as specified in TS 38.321 [3].
DRX-ConfigPTM information element
-- ASN1START
-- TAG-DRX-CONFIGPTM-START

DRX-ConfigPTM-r17 ::=             SEQUENCE {
    drx-onDurationTimerPTM-r17        CHOICE {
        subMilliSeconds                   INTEGER (1..31),
        milliSeconds                      ENUMERATED {
            ms1, ms2, ms3, ms4, ms5, ms6, ms8, ms10, ms20, ms30, ms40, ms50, ms60,
            ms80, ms100, ms200, ms300, ms400, ms500, ms600, ms800, ms1000, ms1200,
            ms1600, spare8, spare7, spare6, spare5, spare4, spare3, spare2, spare1
        }
    },
    drx-InactivityTimerPTM-r17        ENUMERATED {
            ms0, ms1, ms2, ms3, ms4, ms5, ms6, ms8, ms10, ms20, ms30, ms40, ms50, ms60, ms80,
            ms100, ms200, ms300, ms500, ms750, ms1280, ms1920, ms2560, spare9, spare8,
            spare7, spare6, spare5, spare4, spare3, spare2, spare1
    },
    drx-HARQ-RTT-TimerDL-PTM-r17      INTEGER (0..56)                      OPTIONAL,  -- Cond HARQFeedback
    drx-RetransmissionTimerDL-PTM-r17 ENUMERATED {
            sl0, sl1, sl2, sl4, sl6, sl8, sl16, sl24, sl33, sl40, sl64, sl80, sl96, sl112, sl128,
            sl160, sl320, spare15, spare14, spare13, spare12, spare11, spare10, spare9,
            spare8, spare7, spare6, spare5, spare4, spare3, spare2, spare1
    }                                                                      OPTIONAL,   -- Cond HARQFeedback
    drx-LongCycleStartOffsetPTM-r17   CHOICE {
        ms10                              INTEGER(0..9),
        ms20                              INTEGER(0..19),
        ms32                              INTEGER(0..31),
        ms40                              INTEGER(0..39),
        ms60                              INTEGER(0..59),
        ms64                              INTEGER(0..63),
        ms70                              INTEGER(0..69),
        ms80                              INTEGER(0..79),
        ms128                             INTEGER(0..127),
        ms160                             INTEGER(0..159),
        ms256                             INTEGER(0..255),
        ms320                             INTEGER(0..319),
        ms512                             INTEGER(0..511),
        ms640                             INTEGER(0..639),
        ms1024                            INTEGER(0..1023),
        ms1280                            INTEGER(0..1279),
        ms2048                            INTEGER(0..2047),
        ms2560                            INTEGER(0..2559),
        ms5120                            INTEGER(0..5119),
        ms10240                           INTEGER(0..10239)
    },
    drx-SlotOffsetPTM-r17                 INTEGER (0..31)
}

-- TAG-DRX-CONFIGPTM-STOP
-- ASN1STOP





–	MBS-NeighbourCellList
The IE MBS-NeighbourCellList indicates a list of neighbour cells where ongoing MBS sessions provided via broadcast/multicast MRB in the current cell may also be provided, as indicated in the mtch-NeighbourCell.
MBS-NeighbourCellList information element
-- ASN1START
-- TAG-MBS-NEIGHBOURCELLLIST-START

MBS-NeighbourCellList-r17 ::=     SEQUENCE (SIZE (0..maxNeighCellMBS-r17)) OF MBS-NeighbourCell-r17

MBS-NeighbourCell-r17 ::=         SEQUENCE {
    physCellId-r17                    PhysCellId,
    carrierFreq-r17                   ARFCN-ValueNR                                  OPTIONAL  -- Need S
}

-- TAG-MBS-NEIGHBOURCELLLIST-STOP
-- ASN1STOP



–	MBS-NonServingInfoList
The IE MBS-NonServingInfoList is used to inform network of the frequencies, CFR information and subcarrier spacing for MBS broadcast reception on the non-serving cell.
MBS-NonServingInfoList information element
-- ASN1START
-- TAG-MBS-NONSERVINGINFOLIST-START

MBS-NonServingInfoList-r18 ::=    SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxFreqMBS-r17)) OF NonServingInfo-r18

NonServingInfo-r18 ::=            SEQUENCE {
    freqInfoMBS-r18                   FreqInfoMBS-r18                                          OPTIONAL,
    cfr-InfoMBS-r18                   CHOICE {
        cfr-Bandwidth-r18                 INTEGER (1..maxNrofPhysicalResourceBlocks),
        cfr-LocationAndBW-r18             CFR-LocationAndBW-r18
    }                                                                                          OPTIONAL,
    subcarrierSpacing-r18             SubcarrierSpacing                                        OPTIONAL
}

FreqInfoMBS-r18 ::=               SEQUENCE {
    carrierFreqMBS-r18                ARFCN-ValueNR,
    freqBandIndicatorMBS-r18          FreqBandIndicatorNR
}

CFR-LocationAndBW-r18 ::=         SEQUENCE {
    locationAndBandwidthMBS-r18       INTEGER (0..37949)                                       OPTIONAL,
    absoluteFrequencyPointA-MBS-r18   ARFCN-ValueNR                                            OPTIONAL,
    offsetToCarrierMBS-r18            INTEGER (0..2199)                                        OPTIONAL
}

-- TAG-MBS-NONSERVINGINFOLIST-STOP
-- ASN1STOP





–	MBS-ServiceList
The IE MBS- ServiceList is used to inform the network of the MBS services that the UE is receiving or interested to receive.
MBS-ServiceList information element
-- ASN1START
-- TAG-MBS-SERVICELIST-START

MBS-ServiceList-r17 ::=         SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxNrofMBS-ServiceListPerUE-r17)) OF MBS-ServiceInfo-r17

MBS-ServiceInfo-r17 ::=         SEQUENCE {
    tmgi-r17                        TMGI-r17
}

-- TAG-MBS-SERVICELIST-STOP
-- ASN1STOP

–	MBS-SessionInfoList
The IE MBS-SessionInfoList provides the list of ongoing MBS broadcast sessions transmitted via broadcast MRB and, for each MBS broadcast session, the associated G-RNTI and scheduling information.
MBS-SessionInfoList information element
-- ASN1START
-- TAG-MBS-SESSIONINFOLIST-START

MBS-SessionInfoList-r17 ::=      SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxNrofMBS-Session-r17)) OF MBS-SessionInfo-r17

MBS-SessionInfo-r17 ::=          SEQUENCE {
    mbs-SessionId-r17                TMGI-r17,
    g-RNTI-r17                       RNTI-Value,
    mrb-ListBroadcast-r17            MRB-ListBroadcast-r17,
    mtch-SchedulingInfo-r17          DRX-ConfigPTM-Index-r17                      OPTIONAL, -- Need S
    mtch-NeighbourCell-r17           BIT STRING (SIZE(maxNeighCellMBS-r17))       OPTIONAL, -- Need S
    pdsch-ConfigIndex-r17            PDSCH-ConfigIndex-r17                        OPTIONAL, -- Need S
    mtch-SSB-MappingWindowIndex-r17  MTCH-SSB-MappingWindowIndex-r17              OPTIONAL  -- Cond MTCH-Mapping
}

DRX-ConfigPTM-Index-r17 ::=          INTEGER (0..maxNrofDRX-ConfigPTM-1-r17)

PDSCH-ConfigIndex-r17  ::=           INTEGER (0..maxNrofPDSCH-ConfigPTM-1-r17)

MTCH-SSB-MappingWindowIndex-r17  ::= INTEGER (0..maxNrofMTCH-SSB-MappingWindow-1-r17)

MRB-ListBroadcast-r17 ::=            SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxNrofMRB-Broadcast-r17)) OF MRB-InfoBroadcast-r17

MRB-InfoBroadcast-r17 ::=            SEQUENCE {
    pdcp-Config-r17                      MRB-PDCP-ConfigBroadcast-r17,
    rlc-Config-r17                       MRB-RLC-ConfigBroadcast-r17,
    ...
}

MRB-PDCP-ConfigBroadcast-r17 ::=     SEQUENCE {
    pdcp-SN-SizeDL-r17                   ENUMERATED {len12bits}                   OPTIONAL, -- Need S
    headerCompression-r17                CHOICE {
        notUsed                              NULL,
        rohc                                 SEQUENCE {
            maxCID-r17                           INTEGER (1..16)               DEFAULT 15,
            profiles-r17                         SEQUENCE {
                profile0x0000-r17                    BOOLEAN,
                profile0x0001-r17                    BOOLEAN,
                profile0x0002-r17                    BOOLEAN
           }
        }
    },
    t-Reordering-r17                     ENUMERATED {ms1, ms10, ms40, ms160, ms500, ms1000, ms1250, ms2750}    OPTIONAL -- Need S
}

MRB-RLC-ConfigBroadcast-r17 ::=      SEQUENCE {
    logicalChannelIdentity-r17           LogicalChannelIdentity,
    sn-FieldLength-r17                   ENUMERATED {size6}                       OPTIONAL, -- Need S
    t-Reassembly-r17                     T-Reassembly                             OPTIONAL  -- Need S
}

-- TAG-MBS-SESSIONINFOLIST-STOP
-- ASN1STOP





–	MBS-SessionInfoListMulticast
The IE MBS-SessionInfoListMulticast provides a list of MBS multicast sessions transmitted via multicast MRB for RRC_INACTIVE UEs and, for each MBS multicast session, the associated G-RNTI and scheduling information.
MBS-SessionInfoListMulticast information element
-- ASN1START
-- TAG-MBS-SESSIONINFOLISTMULTICAST-START

MBS-SessionInfoListMulticast-r18 ::=      SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxNrofMBS-Session-r17)) OF MBS-SessionInfoMulticast-r18

MBS-SessionInfoMulticast-r18 ::=   SEQUENCE {
    mbs-SessionId-r18                  TMGI-r17,
    g-RNTI-r18                         RNTI-Value                                   OPTIONAL, -- Need R
    mrb-ListMulticast-r18              MRB-ListMulticast-r18                        OPTIONAL, -- Need R
    mtch-SchedulingInfo-r18            DRX-ConfigPTM-Index-r17                      OPTIONAL, -- Need S
    mtch-NeighbourCell-r18             BIT STRING (SIZE(maxNeighCellMBS-r17))       OPTIONAL, -- Need S
    pdsch-ConfigIndex-r18              PDSCH-ConfigIndex-r17                        OPTIONAL, -- Need S
    mtch-SSB-MappingWindowIndex-r18    MTCH-SSB-MappingWindowIndex-r17              OPTIONAL, -- Cond MTCH-Mapping
    thresholdIndex-r18                 INTEGER (0..maxNrofThresholdMBS-1-r18)       OPTIONAL, -- Need R
    pdcp-SyncIndicator-r18             ENUMERATED {true}                            OPTIONAL, -- Cond RRCRelease
    stopMonitoringRNTI-r18             ENUMERATED {true}                            OPTIONAL, -- Cond G-RNTI
    ...
}

MRB-ListMulticast-r18 ::=          SEQUENCE (SIZE (1.. maxMRB-r17)) OF MRB-InfoMulticast-r18

MRB-InfoMulticast-r18 ::=          SEQUENCE {
    pdcp-Config-r18                    MRB-PDCP-ConfigMulticast-r18,
    rlc-Config-r18                     MRB-RLC-ConfigMulticast-r18,
    ...
}

MRB-PDCP-ConfigMulticast-r18 ::=   SEQUENCE {
    pdcp-SN-SizeDL-r18                 ENUMERATED {len12bits, len18bits},
    headerCompression-r18              CHOICE {
        notUsed                            NULL,
        rohc                               SEQUENCE {
            maxCID-r18                         INTEGER (1..16)               DEFAULT 15,
            profiles-r18                       SEQUENCE {
                profile0x0000-r18                  BOOLEAN,
                profile0x0001-r18                  BOOLEAN,
                profile0x0002-r18                  BOOLEAN
           }
        }
    },
    t-Reordering-r17                   ENUMERATED {ms1, ms10, ms40, ms160, ms500, ms1000, ms1250, ms2750}    OPTIONAL -- Need R
}

MRB-RLC-ConfigMulticast-r18 ::=    SEQUENCE {
    logicalChannelIdentity-r18         CHOICE {
        logicalChannelIdentitymulticast-r18 LogicalChannelIdentity,
        logicalChannelIdentityExt-r18       LogicalChannelIdentityExt-r17
    },
    sn-FieldLength-r18                 ENUMERATED {size6, size12},
    t-Reassembly-r18                   T-Reassembly                                 OPTIONAL  -- Need R
}

-- TAG-MBS-SESSIONINFOLISTMULTICAST-STOP
-- ASN1STOP





–	MTCH-SSB-MappingWindowList
The IE MTCH-SSB-MappingWindowList is used to configure MTCH PDCCH ocassions to SSB mapping window related periodic and offset parameters.
MTCH-SSB-MappingWindowList information element
-- ASN1START
-- TAG-MTCH-SSB-MAPPINGWINDOWLIST-START

MTCH-SSB-MappingWindowList-r17 ::= SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxNrofMTCH-SSB-MappingWindow-r17)) OF MTCH-SSB-MappingWindowCycleOffset-r17

MTCH-SSB-MappingWindowCycleOffset-r17 ::= CHOICE {
    ms10                                      INTEGER(0..9),
    ms20                                      INTEGER(0..19),
    ms32                                      INTEGER(0..31),
    ms64                                      INTEGER(0..63),
    ms128                                     INTEGER(0..127),
    ms256                                     INTEGER(0..255)
}

-- TAG-MTCH-SSB-MAPPINGWINDOWLIST-STOP
-- ASN1STOP



–	PDSCH-ConfigBroadcast
The IE PDSCH-ConfigBroadcast is used to configure parameters for acquiring the PDSCH for MCCH, multicast MCCH and MTCH.
PDSCH-ConfigBroadcast information element
-- ASN1START
-- TAG-PDSCH-CONFIGBROADCAST-START

PDSCH-ConfigBroadcast-r17 ::= SEQUENCE {
    pdschConfigList-r17                    SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxNrofPDSCH-ConfigPTM-r17) ) OF PDSCH-ConfigPTM-r17,
    pdsch-TimeDomainAllocationList-r17     PDSCH-TimeDomainResourceAllocationList-r16                          OPTIONAL,   -- Need R
    rateMatchPatternToAddModList-r17       SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxNrofRateMatchPatterns)) OF RateMatchPattern   OPTIONAL,   -- Need R
    lte-CRS-ToMatchAround-r17              RateMatchPatternLTE-CRS                                             OPTIONAL,   -- Need R
    mcs-Table-r17                          ENUMERATED {qam256, qam64LowSE}                                     OPTIONAL,   -- Need S
    xOverhead-r17                          ENUMERATED {xOh6, xOh12, xOh18}                                     OPTIONAL    -- Need S
}

PDSCH-ConfigPTM-r17 ::= SEQUENCE {
    dataScramblingIdentityPDSCH-r17        INTEGER (0..1023)         OPTIONAL,   -- Need S
    dmrs-ScramblingID0-r17                 INTEGER (0..65535)        OPTIONAL,   -- Need S
    pdsch-AggregationFactor-r17            ENUMERATED {n2, n4, n8}   OPTIONAL    -- Need S
}

-- TAG-PDSCH-CONFIGBROADCAST-STOP
-- ASN1STOP





–	TMGI
The IE TMGI is used to identify the MBS session.
TMGI information element
-- ASN1START
-- TAG-TMGI-START

TMGI-r17 ::=                     SEQUENCE {
    plmn-Id-r17                      CHOICE {
        plmn-Index                       INTEGER (1..maxPLMN),
        explicitValue                    PLMN-Identity
    },
    serviceId-r17                    OCTET STRING (SIZE (3))
}

-- TAG-TMGI-STOP
-- ASN1STOP



6.4	RRC multiplicity and type constraint values
–	Multiplicity and type constraint definitions
-- ASN1START
-- TAG-MULTIPLICITY-AND-TYPE-CONSTRAINT-DEFINITIONS-START

maxAdditionalRACH-r17                   INTEGER ::= 256     -- Maximum number of additional RACH configurations.
maxAI-DCI-PayloadSize-r16               INTEGER ::= 128      --Maximum size of the DCI payload scrambled with ai-RNTI
maxAI-DCI-PayloadSize-1-r16             INTEGER ::= 127      --Maximum size of the DCI payload scrambled with ai-RNTI minus 1
maxBandComb                             INTEGER ::= 65536   -- Maximum number of DL band combinations
maxBandComb-MUSIM-r18                   INTEGER ::= 64      -- Maximum number of MUSIM bands and/or band combinations
maxBandsUTRA-FDD-r16                    INTEGER ::= 64      -- Maximum number of bands listed in UTRA-FDD UE caps
maxCandidateBandIndex-r18               INTEGER ::= 8       -- Maximum number of band entry index for MUSIM capability
maxBH-RLC-ChannelID-r16                 INTEGER ::= 65536   -- Maximum value of BH RLC Channel ID
maxBT-IdReport-r16                      INTEGER ::= 32      -- Maximum number of Bluetooth IDs to report
maxBT-Name-r16                          INTEGER ::= 4       -- Maximum number of Bluetooth name
maxCAG-Cell-r16                         INTEGER ::= 16      -- Maximum number of NR CAG cell ranges in SIB3, SIB4
maxTwoPUCCH-Grp-ConfigList-r16          INTEGER ::= 32      -- Maximum number of supported configuration(s) of {primary PUCCH group
                                                            -- config, secondary PUCCH group config}
maxTwoPUCCH-Grp-ConfigList-r17          INTEGER ::= 16      -- Maximum number of supported configuration(s) of {primary PUCCH group
                                                            -- config, secondary PUCCH group config} for PUCCH cell switching
maxCBR-Config-r16                       INTEGER ::= 8       -- Maximum number of CBR range configurations for sidelink communication
                                                            -- congestion control
maxCBR-Config-1-r16                     INTEGER ::= 7       -- Maximum number of CBR range configurations for sidelink communication
                                                            -- congestion control minus 1
maxCBR-Level-r16                        INTEGER ::= 16      -- Maximum number of CBR levels
maxCBR-Level-1-r16                      INTEGER ::= 15      -- Maximum number of CBR levels minus 1
maxCellATG-r18                          INTEGER ::= 8       -- Maximum number of ATG neighbour cells for which assistance information is
                                                            -- provided
maxCellExcluded                         INTEGER ::= 16      -- Maximum number of NR exclude-listed cell ranges in SIB3, SIB4
maxCellGroupings-r16                    INTEGER ::= 32      -- Maximum number of cell groupings for NR-DC
maxCellHistory-r16                      INTEGER ::= 16      -- Maximum number of visited PCells reported
maxPSCellHistory-r17                    INTEGER ::= 16      -- Maximum number of visited PSCells across all reported PCells
maxCellInter                            INTEGER ::= 16      -- Maximum number of inter-Freq cells listed in SIB4
maxCellIntra                            INTEGER ::= 16      -- Maximum number of intra-Freq cells listed in SIB3
maxCellMeasEUTRA                        INTEGER ::= 32      -- Maximum number of cells in E-UTRAN
maxCellMeasIdle-r16                     INTEGER ::= 8       -- Maximum number of cells per carrier for idle/inactive measurements
maxCellMeasUTRA-FDD-r16                 INTEGER ::= 32      -- Maximum number of cells in FDD UTRAN
maxCellNTN-r17                          INTEGER ::= 4       -- Maximum number of NTN neighbour cells for which assistance information is
                                                            -- provided
maxCarrierTypePairList-r16              INTEGER ::= 16      -- Maximum number of supported carrier type pair of (carrier type on which
                                                            -- CSI measurement is performed, carrier type on which CSI reporting is
                                                            -- performed) for CSI reporting cross PUCCH group
maxCellAllowed                          INTEGER ::= 16      -- Maximum number of NR allow-listed cell ranges in SIB3, SIB4
maxEARFCN                               INTEGER ::= 262143  -- Maximum value of E-UTRA carrier frequency
maxEUTRA-CellExcluded                   INTEGER ::= 16      -- Maximum number of E-UTRA exclude-listed physical cell identity ranges
                                                            -- in SIB5
maxEUTRA-NS-Pmax                        INTEGER ::= 8       -- Maximum number of NS and P-Max values per band
maxFeatureCombPreamblesPerRACHResource-r17 INTEGER ::= 256  -- Maximum number of feature combination preambles.
maxLogMeasReport-r16                    INTEGER ::= 520     -- Maximum number of entries for logged measurements
maxMultiBands                           INTEGER ::= 8       -- Maximum number of additional frequency bands that a cell belongs to
maxNARFCN                               INTEGER ::= 3279165 -- Maximum value of NR carrier frequency
maxNR-NS-Pmax                           INTEGER ::= 8       -- Maximum number of NS and P-Max values per band
maxFreqIdle-r16                         INTEGER ::= 8       -- Maximum number of carrier frequencies for idle/inactive measurements
maxNrofServingCells                     INTEGER ::= 32      -- Max number of serving cells (SpCells + SCells)
maxNrofServingCells-1                   INTEGER ::= 31      -- Max number of serving cells (SpCells + SCells) minus 1
maxNrofAggregatedCellsPerCellGroup      INTEGER ::= 16
maxNrofAggregatedCellsPerCellGroupMinus4-r16 INTEGER ::= 12
maxNrofAperiodicFwdTimeResource-r18     INTEGER ::= 112     -- Max number of aperiodic fowarding time resources for NCR
maxNrofAperiodicFwdTimeResource-1-r18   INTEGER ::= 111     -- Max number of aperiodic fowarding time resources for NCR minus 1
maxNrofDUCells-r16                      INTEGER ::= 512     -- Max number of cells configured on the collocated IAB-DU
maxNrofAppLayerMeas-r17                 INTEGER ::= 16      -- Max number of simultaneous application layer measurements
maxNrofAppLayerMeas-1-r17               INTEGER ::= 15      -- Max number of simultaneous application layer measurements minus 1

maxNrofAppLayerReports-r18              INTEGER ::= 16      -- Max number of application layer measurement reports with the same
                                                            -- measConfigAppLayerId included in the same
                                                            -- MeasurementReportAppLayerMessage
maxNrofAvailabilityCombinationsPerSet-r16   INTEGER ::= 512 -- Max number of AvailabilityCombinationId used in the DCI format 2_5
maxNrofAvailabilityCombinationsPerSet-1-r16 INTEGER ::= 511 -- Max number of AvailabilityCombinationId used in the DCI format 2_5 minus 1
maxNrofIABResourceConfig-r17            INTEGER ::= 65536   -- Max number of IAB-ResourceConfigID used in MAC CE
maxNrofIABResourceConfig-1-r17          INTEGER ::= 65535   -- Max number of IAB-ResourceConfigID used in MAC CE minus 1
maxNrofPeriodicFwdResourceSet-r18       INTEGER ::= 32      -- Max number of periodic fowarding resource sets for NCR
maxNrofPeriodicFwdResourceSet-1-r18     INTEGER ::= 31      -- Max number of periodic fowarding resource sets for NCR minus 1
maxNrofPeriodicFwdResource-r18          INTEGER ::= 1024    -- Max number of periodic fowarding resources for NCR
maxNrofPeriodicFwdResource-1-r18        INTEGER ::= 1023    -- Max number of periodic fowarding resources for NCR minus 1
maxNrofSemiPersistentFwdResourceSet-r18 INTEGER ::= 32      -- Max number of semi-persistent fowarding resource sets for NCR
maxNrofSemiPersistentFwdResourceSet-1-r18 INTEGER ::= 31    -- Max number of semi-persistent fowarding resource sets for NCR minus 1
maxNrofSemiPersistentFwdResource-r18    INTEGER ::= 128     -- Max number of semi-persistent fowarding resources for NCR
maxNrofSemiPersistentFwdResource-1-r18  INTEGER ::= 127     -- Max number of semi-persistent fowarding resources for NCR minus 1
maxNrofSCellActRS-r17                   INTEGER ::= 255     -- Max number of RS configurations per SCell for SCell activation
maxNrofSCells                           INTEGER ::= 31      -- Max number of secondary serving cells per cell group
maxNrofCellMeas                         INTEGER ::= 32      -- Maximum number of entries in each of the cell lists in a measurement object
maxNrofCRS-IM-InterfCell-r17            INTEGER ::= 8       -- Maximum number of LTE interference cells for CRS-IM per UE
maxNrofRelayMeas-r17                    INTEGER ::= 32      -- Maximum number of L2 U2N Relay UEs to measure for each measurement object
                                                            -- on sidelink frequency
maxNrofCG-SL-r16                        INTEGER ::= 8       -- Max number of sidelink configured grant
maxNrofCG-SL-1-r16                      INTEGER ::= 7       -- Max number of sidelink configured grant minus 1
maxSL-GC-BC-DRX-QoS-r17                 INTEGER ::= 16      -- Max number of sidelink DRX configurations for NR
                                                            -- sidelink groupcast/broadcast communication
maxNrofSL-RxInfoSet-r17                 INTEGER ::= 4       -- Max number of sidelink DRX configuration sets in sidelink DRX assistant
                                                            -- information
maxNrofSS-BlocksToAverage               INTEGER ::= 16      -- Max number for the (max) number of SS blocks to average to determine cell measurement
maxNrofCondCells-r16                    INTEGER ::= 8       -- Max number of conditional candidate SpCells
maxNrofCondCells-1-r17                  INTEGER ::= 7       -- Max number of conditional candidate SpCells minus 1
maxNrofCSI-RS-ResourcesToAverage        INTEGER ::= 16      -- Max number for the (max) number of CSI-RS to average to determine cell measurement
maxNrofDL-Allocations                   INTEGER ::= 16      -- Maximum number of PDSCH time domain resource allocations
maxNrofDL-AllocationsExt-r17            INTEGER ::= 64      -- Maximum number of PDSCH time domain resource allocations for multi-PDSCH
                                                            -- scheduling
maxNrofDL-Allocations-1-r18             INTEGER ::= 15      -- Maximum number of PDSCH time domain resource allocations minus 1
maxNrofPDU-Sessions-r17                 INTEGER ::= 256     -- Maximum number of PDU Sessions
maxNrofSR-ConfigPerCellGroup            INTEGER ::= 8       -- Maximum number of SR configurations per cell group
maxNrofLCGs-r18                         INTEGER ::= 8       -- Maximum number of LCGs
maxLCG-ID                               INTEGER ::= 7       -- Maximum value of LCG ID
maxLCG-ID-IAB-r17                       INTEGER ::= 255     -- Maximum value of LCG ID for IAB-MT
maxLC-ID                                INTEGER ::= 32      -- Maximum value of Logical Channel ID
maxLC-ID-Iab-r16                        INTEGER ::= 65855   -- Maximum value of BH Logical Channel ID extension
maxLTE-CRS-Patterns-r16                 INTEGER ::= 3       -- Maximum number of additional LTE CRS rate matching patterns
maxNrOfLinkedSRS-CarriersInactive-1-r18 INTEGER ::= 2       -- Maximum number of carriers for positioning SRS CA in RRC_INACTIVE minus 1
maxNrofTAGs                             INTEGER ::= 4       -- Maximum number of Timing Advance Groups
maxNrofTAGs-1                           INTEGER ::= 3       -- Maximum number of Timing Advance Groups minus 1
maxNrofBWPs                             INTEGER ::= 4       -- Maximum number of BWPs per serving cell
maxNrofCombIDC                          INTEGER ::= 128     -- Maximum number of reported MR-DC combinations for IDC
maxNrofSymbols-1                        INTEGER ::= 13      -- Maximum index identifying a symbol within a slot (14 symbols, indexed from 0..13)
maxNrofSlots                            INTEGER ::= 320     -- Maximum number of slots in a 10 ms period
maxNrofSlots-1                          INTEGER ::= 319     -- Maximum number of slots in a 10 ms period minus 1
maxNrofPhysicalResourceBlocks           INTEGER ::= 275     -- Maximum number of PRBs
maxNrofPhysicalResourceBlocks-1         INTEGER ::= 274     -- Maximum number of PRBs minus 1
maxNrofPhysicalResourceBlocksPlus1      INTEGER ::= 276     -- Maximum number of PRBs plus 1
maxNrofControlResourceSets              INTEGER ::= 12      -- Max number of CoReSets configurable on a serving cell
maxNrofControlResourceSets-1            INTEGER ::= 11      -- Max number of CoReSets configurable on a serving cell minus 1
maxNrofControlResourceSets-1-r16        INTEGER ::= 15      -- Max number of CoReSets configurable on a serving cell extended in minus 1
maxNrofCoresetPools-r16                 INTEGER ::= 2       -- Maximum number of CORESET pools
maxCoReSetDuration                      INTEGER ::= 3       -- Max number of OFDM symbols in a control resource set
maxNrofSearchSpaces-1                   INTEGER ::= 39      -- Max number of Search Spaces minus 1
maxNrofSearchSpacesLinks-1-r17          INTEGER ::= 39      -- Max number of Search Space links minus 1
maxNrofBFDResourcePerSet-r17            INTEGER ::= 64      -- Max number of reference signal in one BFD set
maxSFI-DCI-PayloadSize                  INTEGER ::= 128     -- Max number payload of a DCI scrambled with SFI-RNTI
maxSFI-DCI-PayloadSize-1                INTEGER ::= 127     -- Max number payload of a DCI scrambled with SFI-RNTI minus 1
maxIAB-IP-Address-r16                   INTEGER ::= 32      -- Max number of assigned IP addresses
maxINT-DCI-PayloadSize                  INTEGER ::= 126     -- Max number payload of a DCI scrambled with INT-RNTI
maxINT-DCI-PayloadSize-1                INTEGER ::= 125     -- Max number payload of a DCI scrambled with INT-RNTI minus 1
maxNrofRateMatchPatterns                INTEGER ::= 4       -- Max number of rate matching patterns that may be configured
maxNrofRateMatchPatterns-1              INTEGER ::= 3       -- Max number of rate matching patterns that may be configured minus 1
maxNrofRateMatchPatternsPerGroup        INTEGER ::= 8       -- Max number of rate matching patterns that may be configured in one group
maxNrofCSI-ReportConfigurations         INTEGER ::= 48      -- Maximum number of report configurations
maxNrofCSI-ReportConfigurations-1       INTEGER ::= 47      -- Maximum number of report configurations minus 1
maxNrofCSI-ResourceConfigurations       INTEGER ::= 112     -- Maximum number of resource configurations
maxNrofCSI-ResourceConfigurations-1     INTEGER ::= 111     -- Maximum number of resource configurations minus 1
maxNrofAP-CSI-RS-ResourcesPerSet        INTEGER ::= 16
maxNrOfCSI-AperiodicTriggers            INTEGER ::= 128     -- Maximum number of triggers for aperiodic CSI reporting
maxNrofReportConfigPerAperiodicTrigger  INTEGER ::= 16      -- Maximum number of report configurations per trigger state for aperiodic reporting
maxNrofNZP-CSI-RS-Resources             INTEGER ::= 192     -- Maximum number of Non-Zero-Power (NZP) CSI-RS resources
maxNrofNZP-CSI-RS-Resources-1           INTEGER ::= 191     -- Maximum number of Non-Zero-Power (NZP) CSI-RS resources minus 1
maxNrofNZP-CSI-RS-ResourcesPerSet       INTEGER ::= 64      -- Maximum number of NZP CSI-RS resources per resource set
maxNrofNZP-CSI-RS-ResourcesPerSet-1-r18 INTEGER ::= 63      -- Maximum number of NZP CSI-RS resources per resource set minus 1
maxNrofNZP-CSI-RS-ResourceSets          INTEGER ::= 64      -- Maximum number of NZP CSI-RS resource sets per cell
maxNrofNZP-CSI-RS-ResourceSets-1        INTEGER ::= 63      -- Maximum number of NZP CSI-RS resource sets per cell minus 1
maxNrofNZP-CSI-RS-ResourceSetsPerConfig INTEGER ::= 16      -- Maximum number of resource sets per resource configuration
maxNrofNZP-CSI-RS-ResourcesPerConfig    INTEGER ::= 128     -- Maximum number of resources per resource configuration
maxNrofZP-CSI-RS-Resources              INTEGER ::= 32      -- Maximum number of Zero-Power (ZP) CSI-RS resources
maxNrofZP-CSI-RS-Resources-1            INTEGER ::= 31      -- Maximum number of Zero-Power (ZP) CSI-RS resources minus 1
maxNrofZP-CSI-RS-ResourceSets-1         INTEGER ::= 15
maxNrofZP-CSI-RS-ResourcesPerSet        INTEGER ::= 16
maxNrofZP-CSI-RS-ResourceSets           INTEGER ::= 16
maxNrofCSI-IM-Resources                 INTEGER ::= 32      -- Maximum number of CSI-IM resources
maxNrofCSI-IM-Resources-1               INTEGER ::= 31      -- Maximum number of CSI-IM resources minus 1
maxNrofCSI-IM-ResourcesPerSet           INTEGER ::= 8       -- Maximum number of CSI-IM resources per set
maxNrofCSI-IM-ResourceSets              INTEGER ::= 64      -- Maximum number of NZP CSI-IM resource sets per cell
maxNrofCSI-IM-ResourceSets-1            INTEGER ::= 63      -- Maximum number of NZP CSI-IM resource sets per cell minus 1
maxNrofCSI-IM-ResourceSetsPerConfig     INTEGER ::= 16      -- Maximum number of CSI IM resource sets per resource configuration
maxNrofCSI-SSB-ResourcePerSet           INTEGER ::= 64      -- Maximum number of SSB resources in a resource set
maxNrofCSI-SSB-ResourceSets             INTEGER ::= 64      -- Maximum number of CSI SSB resource sets per cell
maxNrofCSI-SSB-ResourceSets-1           INTEGER ::= 63      -- Maximum number of CSI SSB resource sets per cell minus 1
maxNrofCSI-SSB-ResourceSetsPerConfig    INTEGER ::= 1       -- Maximum number of CSI SSB resource sets per resource configuration
maxNrofCSI-SSB-ResourceSetsPerConfigExt INTEGER ::= 2       -- Maximum number of CSI SSB resource sets per resource configuration
                                                            -- extended
maxNrofFailureDetectionResources        INTEGER ::= 10      -- Maximum number of failure detection resources
maxNrofFailureDetectionResources-1      INTEGER ::= 9       -- Maximum number of failure detection resources minus 1
maxNrofFailureDetectionResources-1-r17  INTEGER ::= 63      -- Maximum number of the enhanced failure detection resources minus 1
maxNrofFreqSL-r16                       INTEGER ::= 8       -- Maximum number of carrier frequency for NR sidelink communication
maxNrofFreqSL-1-r18                     INTEGER ::= 7       -- Maximum number of carrier frequency for NR sidelink communication minus 1
maxNrofSL-BWPs-r16                      INTEGER ::= 4       -- Maximum number of BWP for NR sidelink communication
maxNrofSL-CarrierSetConfig-r18          INTEGER ::= 96      -- Maximum number of SCCH carrier set configuration for NR sidelink
                                                            -- communication
maxFreqSL-EUTRA-r16                     INTEGER ::= 8       -- Maximum number of EUTRA anchor carrier frequency for NR sidelink
                                                            -- communication
maxNrofSL-MeasId-r16                    INTEGER ::= 64      -- Maximum number of sidelink measurement identity (RSRP) per destination
maxNrofSL-ObjectId-r16                  INTEGER ::= 64      -- Maximum number of sidelink measurement objects (RSRP) per destination
maxNrofSL-ReportConfigId-r16            INTEGER ::= 64      -- Maximum number of sidelink measurement reporting configuration(RSRP) per destination
maxNrofSL-PoolToMeasureNR-r16           INTEGER ::= 8       -- Maximum number of resource pool for NR sidelink measurement to measure
                                                            -- for each measurement object (for CBR)
maxNrofDedicatedSL-PRS-PoolToMeas-r18   INTEGER ::= 8       -- Maximum number of SL-PRS dedicated resource pool for positioning
                                                            -- measurement to measure for each measurement object (for SL-PRS CBR)
maxFreqSL-NR-r16                        INTEGER ::= 8       -- Maximum number of NR anchor carrier frequency for NR sidelink communication
maxNrofSL-QFIs-r16                      INTEGER ::= 2048    -- Maximum number of QoS flow for NR sidelink communication per UE
maxNrofSL-QFIsPerDest-r16               INTEGER ::= 64      -- Maximum number of QoS flow per destination for NR sidelink communication
maxNrofObjectId                         INTEGER ::= 64      -- Maximum number of measurement objects
maxNrofPageRec                          INTEGER ::= 32      -- Maximum number of page records
maxNrofPCI-Ranges                       INTEGER ::= 8       -- Maximum number of PCI ranges
maxPLMN                                 INTEGER ::= 12      -- Maximum number of PLMNs broadcast and reported by UE at establishment
maxTAC-r17                              INTEGER ::= 12      -- Maximum number of Tracking Area Codes to which a cell belongs to
maxNrofCSI-RS-ResourcesRRM              INTEGER ::= 96      -- Maximum number of CSI-RS resources per cell for an RRM measurement object
maxNrofCSI-RS-ResourcesRRM-1            INTEGER ::= 95      -- Maximum number of CSI-RS resources per cell for an RRM measurement object
                                                            -- minus 1.
maxNrofMeasId                           INTEGER ::= 64      -- Maximum number of configured measurements
maxNrofQuantityConfig                   INTEGER ::= 2       -- Maximum number of quantity configurations
maxNrofCSI-RS-CellsRRM                  INTEGER ::= 96      -- Maximum number of cells with CSI-RS resources for an RRM measurement object
maxNrofSL-Dest-r16                      INTEGER ::= 32      -- Maximum number of destination for NR sidelink communication and discovery
maxNrofSL-Dest-1-r16                    INTEGER ::= 31      -- Highest index of destination for NR sidelink communication and discovery
maxNrofSL-PRS-PerDest-r18               INTEGER ::= 8       -- Max number of SL-PRS transmission supported per destination UE
maxNrofSLRB-r16                         INTEGER ::= 512     -- Maximum number of radio bearer for NR sidelink communication per UE without duplication
maxSL-LCID-Plus1-r18                    INTEGER ::= 513     -- Maximum number of RLC bearer for NR sidelink communication per UE without duplication plus 1
maxSL-LCID-r18                          INTEGER ::= 1024    -- Maximum number of RLC bearer for NR sidelink communication per UE with duplication
maxSL-NonAnchorRBsets                   INTEGER ::= 4       -- Maximum number of non-anchor RB sets
maxSL-LCID-r16                          INTEGER ::= 512     -- Maximum number of RLC bearer for NR sidelink communication per UE
maxSL-SyncConfig-r16                    INTEGER ::= 16      -- Maximum number of sidelink Sync configurations
maxNrofRXPool-r16                       INTEGER ::= 16      -- Maximum number of Rx resource pool for NR sidelink communication and
                                                            -- discovery
maxNrofTXPool-r16                       INTEGER ::= 8       -- Maximum number of Tx resource pool for NR sidelink communication and
                                                            -- discovery
maxNrofPoolID-r16                       INTEGER ::= 16      -- Maximum index of resource pool for NR sidelink communication and
                                                            -- discovery
maxNrofSRS-PathlossReferenceRS-r16      INTEGER ::= 64      -- Maximum number of RSs used as pathloss reference for SRS power control.
maxNrofSRS-PathlossReferenceRS-1-r16    INTEGER ::= 63      -- Maximum number of RSs used as pathloss reference for SRS power control
                                                            -- minus 1.
maxNrofSRS-ResourceSets                 INTEGER ::= 16      -- Maximum number of SRS resource sets in a BWP.
maxNrofSRS-ResourceSets-1               INTEGER ::= 15      -- Maximum number of SRS resource sets in a BWP minus 1.
maxNrofSRS-PosResourceSets-r16          INTEGER ::= 16      -- Maximum number of SRS Positioning resource sets in a BWP.
maxNrofSRS-PosResourceSets-1-r16        INTEGER ::= 15      -- Maximum number of SRS Positioning resource sets in a BWP minus 1.
maxNrofSRS-Resources                    INTEGER ::= 64      -- Maximum number of SRS resources.
maxNrofSRS-Resources-1                  INTEGER ::= 63      -- Maximum number of SRS resources minus 1.
maxNrofSRS-PosResources-r16             INTEGER ::= 64      -- Maximum number of SRS Positioning resources.
maxNrofSRS-PosResources-1-r16           INTEGER ::= 63      -- Maximum number of SRS Positioning resources minus 1.
maxNrofSRS-ResourcesPerSet              INTEGER ::= 16      -- Maximum number of SRS resources in an SRS resource set
maxNrofSRS-TriggerStates-1              INTEGER ::= 3       -- Maximum number of SRS trigger states minus 1, i.e., the largest code point.
maxNrofSRS-TriggerStates-2              INTEGER ::= 2       -- Maximum number of SRS trigger states minus 2.
maxRAT-CapabilityContainers             INTEGER ::= 8       -- Maximum number of interworking RAT containers (incl NR and MRDC)
maxSimultaneousBands                    INTEGER ::= 32      -- Maximum number of simultaneously aggregated bands
maxSimultaneousBands-2-r18              INTEGER ::= 30      -- Maximum number of simultaneously aggregated bands minus 2.
maxULTxSwitchingBandPairs               INTEGER ::= 32      -- Maximum number of band pairs supporting dynamic UL Tx switching in a band
                                                            -- combination.
maxULTxSwitchingBetweenBandPairs-r18    INTEGER ::= 32      -- Maximum number of combinations of a band pair and another band pair/band
                                                            -- between which dynamic UL Tx switching requires additional switching
                                                            -- period.
maxSchedulingBandCombination-r18        INTEGER ::= 32      -- Maximum number of combinations of scheduling cell and co-scheduled cells
                                                            -- have same or different carrier type.
maxNrofSlotFormatCombinationsPerSet     INTEGER ::= 512     -- Maximum number of Slot Format Combinations in a SF-Set.
maxNrofSlotFormatCombinationsPerSet-1   INTEGER ::= 511     -- Maximum number of Slot Format Combinations in a SF-Set minus 1.
maxNrofTrafficPattern-r16               INTEGER ::= 8       -- Maximum number of Traffic Pattern for NR sidelink communication.
maxNrofPUCCH-Resources                  INTEGER ::= 128
maxNrofPUCCH-Resources-1                INTEGER ::= 127
maxNrofPUCCH-ResourceSets               INTEGER ::= 4       -- Maximum number of PUCCH Resource Sets
maxNrofPUCCH-ResourceSets-1             INTEGER ::= 3       -- Maximum number of PUCCH Resource Sets minus 1.
maxNrofPUCCH-ResourcesPerSet            INTEGER ::= 32      -- Maximum number of PUCCH Resources per PUCCH-ResourceSet
maxNrofPUCCH-P0-PerSet                  INTEGER ::= 8       -- Maximum number of P0-pucch present in a p0-pucch set
maxNrofPUCCH-PathlossReferenceRSs       INTEGER ::= 4       -- Maximum number of RSs used as pathloss reference for PUCCH power control.
maxNrofPUCCH-PathlossReferenceRSs-1     INTEGER ::= 3       -- Maximum number of RSs used as pathloss reference for PUCCH power control
                                                            -- minus 1.
maxNrofPUCCH-PathlossReferenceRSs-r16   INTEGER ::= 64      -- Maximum number of RSs used as pathloss reference for PUCCH power control
                                                            -- extended.
maxNrofPUCCH-PathlossReferenceRSs-1-r16 INTEGER ::= 63      -- Maximum number of RSs used as pathloss reference for PUCCH power control
                                                            -- minus 1 extended.
maxNrofPUCCH-PathlossReferenceRSs-1-r17 INTEGER ::= 7       -- Maximum number of RSs used as pathloss reference for PUCCH power control
                                                            -- minus 1.
maxNrofPUCCH-PathlossReferenceRSsDiff-r16 INTEGER ::= 60    -- Difference between the extended maximum and the non-extended maximum
maxNrofPUCCH-ResourceGroups-r16         INTEGER ::= 4       -- Maximum number of PUCCH resources groups.
maxNrofPUCCH-ResourcesPerGroup-r16      INTEGER ::= 128     -- Maximum number of PUCCH resources in a PUCCH group.
maxNrofPowerControlSetInfos-r17         INTEGER ::= 8       -- Maximum number of PUCCH power control set infos
maxNrofMultiplePUSCHs-r16               INTEGER ::= 8       -- Maximum number of multiple PUSCHs in PUSCH TDRA list
maxNrofP0-PUSCH-AlphaSets               INTEGER ::= 30      -- Maximum number of P0-pusch-alpha-sets (see TS 38.213 [13], clause 7.1)
maxNrofP0-PUSCH-AlphaSets-1             INTEGER ::= 29      -- Maximum number of P0-pusch-alpha-sets minus 1 (see TS 38.213 [13], clause 7.1)
maxNrofPUSCH-PathlossReferenceRSs       INTEGER ::= 4       -- Maximum number of RSs used as pathloss reference for PUSCH power control.
maxNrofPUSCH-PathlossReferenceRSs-1     INTEGER ::= 3       -- Maximum number of RSs used as pathloss reference for PUSCH power control
                                                            -- minus 1.
maxNrofPUSCH-PathlossReferenceRSs-r16   INTEGER ::= 64      -- Maximum number of RSs used as pathloss reference for PUSCH power control
                                                            -- extended
maxNrofPUSCH-PathlossReferenceRSs-1-r16 INTEGER ::= 63      -- Maximum number of RSs used as pathloss reference for PUSCH power control
                                                            -- extended minus 1
maxNrofPUSCH-PathlossReferenceRSsDiff-r16  INTEGER ::= 60   -- Difference between maxNrofPUSCH-PathlossReferenceRSs-r16 and
                                                            -- maxNrofPUSCH-PathlossReferenceRSs
maxNrofPathlossReferenceRSs-r17         INTEGER ::= 64      -- Maximum number of RSs used as pathloss reference for PUSCH, PUCCH, SRS
                                                            -- power control for unified TCI state operation
maxNrofPathlossReferenceRSs-1-r17       INTEGER ::= 63      -- Maximum number of RSs used as pathloss reference for PUSCH, PUCCH, SRS
                                                            -- power control for unified TCI state operation minus 1
maxNrofNAICS-Entries                    INTEGER ::= 8       -- Maximum number of supported NAICS capability set
maxBands                                INTEGER ::= 1024    -- Maximum number of supported bands in UE capability.
maxBandsMRDC                            INTEGER ::= 1280
maxBandsEUTRA                           INTEGER ::= 256
maxCellReport                           INTEGER ::= 8
maxDRB                                  INTEGER ::= 29      -- Maximum number of DRBs (that can be added in DRB-ToAddModList).
maxFreq                                 INTEGER ::= 8       -- Max number of frequencies.
maxFreqLayers                           INTEGER ::= 4       -- Max number of frequency layers.
maxFreqPlus1                            INTEGER ::= 9       -- Max number of frequencies for Slicing.
maxFreqIDC-r16                          INTEGER ::= 128     -- Max number of frequencies for IDC indication.
maxCombIDC-r16                          INTEGER ::= 128     -- Max number of reported UL CA for IDC indication.
maxFreqIDC-MRDC                         INTEGER ::= 32      -- Maximum number of candidate NR frequencies for MR-DC IDC indication
maxNrofCandidateBeams                   INTEGER ::= 16      -- Max number of PRACH-ResourceDedicatedBFR in BFR config.
maxNrofCandidateBeams-r16               INTEGER ::= 64      -- Max number of candidate beam resources in BFR config.
maxNrofCandidateBeamsExt-r16            INTEGER ::= 48      -- Max number of PRACH-ResourceDedicatedBFR in the CandidateBeamRSListExt
maxNrofPCIsPerSMTC                      INTEGER ::= 64      -- Maximum number of PCIs per SMTC.
maxNrofQFIs                             INTEGER ::= 64
maxNrofResourceAvailabilityPerCombination-r16 INTEGER ::= 256
maxNrOfSemiPersistentPUSCH-Triggers     INTEGER ::= 64      -- Maximum number of triggers for semi persistent reporting on PUSCH
maxNrofSR-Resources                     INTEGER ::= 8       -- Maximum number of SR resources per BWP in a cell.
maxNrofSlotFormatsPerCombination        INTEGER ::= 256
maxNrofSpatialRelationInfos             INTEGER ::= 8
maxNrofSpatialRelationInfos-plus-1      INTEGER ::= 9
maxNrofSpatialRelationInfos-r16         INTEGER ::= 64
maxNrofSpatialRelationInfosDiff-r16     INTEGER ::= 56      -- Difference between maxNrofSpatialRelationInfos-r16 and maxNrofSpatialRelationInfos
maxNrofIndexesToReport                  INTEGER ::= 32
maxNrofIndexesToReport2                 INTEGER ::= 64
maxNrofSSBs-r16                         INTEGER ::= 64      -- Maximum number of SSB resources in a resource set.
maxNrofSSBs-1                           INTEGER ::= 63      -- Maximum number of SSB resources in a resource set minus 1.
maxNrofS-NSSAI                          INTEGER ::= 8       -- Maximum number of S-NSSAI.
maxNrofTCI-StatesPDCCH                  INTEGER ::= 64
maxNrofTCI-States                       INTEGER ::= 128     -- Maximum number of TCI states.
maxNrofTCI-States-1                     INTEGER ::= 127     -- Maximum number of TCI states minus 1.
maxUL-TCI-r17                           INTEGER ::= 64      -- Maximum number of TCI states.
maxUL-TCI-1-r17                         INTEGER ::= 63      -- Maximum number of TCI states minus 1.
maxNrofAdditionalPCI-r17                INTEGER ::= 7       -- Maximum number of additional PCI
maxNrofAdditionalPRACHConfigs-r18       INTEGER ::= 7       -- Maximum number of additional PRACH configurations for 2TA
maxNrofdelayD-r18                       INTEGER ::= 4       -- Maximum number of delayD values.
maxMPE-Resources-r17                    INTEGER ::= 64      -- Maximum number of pooled MPE resources
maxNrofUL-Allocations                   INTEGER ::= 16      -- Maximum number of PUSCH time domain resource allocations.
maxQFI                                  INTEGER ::= 63
maxRA-CSIRS-Resources                   INTEGER ::= 96
maxRA-OccasionsPerCSIRS                 INTEGER ::= 64      -- Maximum number of RA occasions for one CSI-RS
maxRA-Occasions-1                       INTEGER ::= 511     -- Maximum number of RA occasions in the system
maxRA-SSB-Resources                     INTEGER ::= 64
maxSCSs                                 INTEGER ::= 5
maxSecondaryCellGroups                  INTEGER ::= 3
maxNrofServingCellsEUTRA                INTEGER ::= 32
maxMBSFN-Allocations                    INTEGER ::= 8
maxNrofMultiBands                       INTEGER ::= 8
maxCellSFTD                             INTEGER ::= 3       -- Maximum number of cells for SFTD reporting
maxReportConfigId                       INTEGER ::= 64
maxNrofCodebooks                        INTEGER ::= 16      -- Maximum number of codebooks supported by the UE
maxNrofCSI-RS-ResourcesExt-r16          INTEGER ::= 16      -- Maximum number of codebook resources supported by the UE for eType2/Codebook combo
maxNrofCSI-RS-ResourcesExt-r17          INTEGER ::= 8       -- Maximum number of codebook resources for fetype2R1 and fetype2R2
maxNrofCSI-RS-Resources                 INTEGER ::= 7       -- Maximum number of codebook resources supported by the UE
maxNrofCSI-RS-ResourcesAlt-r16          INTEGER ::= 512     -- Maximum number of alternative codebook resources supported by the UE
maxNrofCSI-RS-ResourcesAlt-1-r16        INTEGER ::= 511     -- Maximum number of alternative codebook resources supported by the UE minus 1
maxNrofSRI-PUSCH-Mappings               INTEGER ::= 16
maxNrofSRI-PUSCH-Mappings-1             INTEGER ::= 15
maxSIB                                  INTEGER::= 32       -- Maximum number of SIBs
maxSI-Message                           INTEGER::= 32       -- Maximum number of SI messages
maxSIB-MessagePlus1-r17                 INTEGER::= 33       -- Maximum number of SIB messages plus 1
maxPO-perPF                             INTEGER ::= 4       -- Maximum number of paging occasion per paging frame
maxPEI-perPF-r17                        INTEGER ::= 4       -- Maximum number of PEI occasion per paging frame
maxAccessCat-1                          INTEGER ::= 63      -- Maximum number of Access Categories minus 1
maxBarringInfoSet                       INTEGER ::= 8       -- Maximum number of access control parameter sets
maxCellEUTRA                            INTEGER ::= 8       -- Maximum number of E-UTRA cells in SIB list
maxEUTRA-Carrier                        INTEGER ::= 8       -- Maximum number of E-UTRA carriers in SIB list
maxPLMNIdentities                       INTEGER ::= 8       -- Maximum number of PLMN identities in RAN area configurations
maxDownlinkFeatureSets                  INTEGER ::= 1024    -- (for NR DL) Total number of FeatureSets (size of the pool)
maxUplinkFeatureSets                    INTEGER ::= 1024    -- (for NR UL) Total number of FeatureSets (size of the pool)
maxEUTRA-DL-FeatureSets                 INTEGER ::= 256     -- (for E-UTRA) Total number of FeatureSets (size of the pool)
maxEUTRA-UL-FeatureSets                 INTEGER ::= 256     -- (for E-UTRA) Total number of FeatureSets (size of the pool)
maxFeatureSetsPerBand                   INTEGER ::= 128     -- (for NR) The number of feature sets associated with one band.
maxPerCC-FeatureSets                    INTEGER ::= 1024    -- (for NR) Total number of CC-specific FeatureSets (size of the pool)
maxFeatureSetCombinations               INTEGER ::= 1024    -- (for MR-DC/NR)Total number of Feature set combinations (size of the pool)
maxInterRAT-RSTD-Freq                   INTEGER ::= 3
maxGIN-r17                              INTEGER ::= 24      -- Maximum number of broadcast GINs
maxHRNN-Len-r16                         INTEGER ::= 48      -- Maximum length of HRNNs
maxNPN-r16                              INTEGER ::= 12      -- Maximum number of NPNs broadcast and reported by UE at establishment
maxSNPN-ConfigCellId-r18                INTEGER ::= 32      -- Maximum number of Cell ID subject for SNPNS for MDT scope
maxSNPN-ConfigID-r18                    INTEGER ::= 16      -- Maximum number of SNPNs subject for MDT scope
maxSNPN-ConfigTAI-r18                   INTEGER ::= 8       -- Maximum number of TA subject for MDT scope
maxNrOfMinSchedulingOffsetValues-r16    INTEGER ::= 2       -- Maximum number of min. scheduling offset (K0/K2) configurations
maxK0-SchedulingOffset-r16              INTEGER ::= 16      -- Maximum number of slots configured as min. scheduling offset (K0)
maxK2-SchedulingOffset-r16              INTEGER ::= 16      -- Maximum number of slots configured as min. scheduling offset (K2)
maxK0-SchedulingOffset-r17              INTEGER ::= 64      -- Maximum number of slots configured as min. scheduling offset (K0)
maxK2-SchedulingOffset-r17              INTEGER ::= 64      -- Maximum number of slots configured as min. scheduling offset (K2)
maxDCI-2-6-Size-r16                     INTEGER ::= 140     -- Maximum size of DCI format 2-6
maxDCI-2-7-Size-r17                     INTEGER ::= 43      -- Maximum size of DCI format 2-7
maxDCI-2-6-Size-1-r16                   INTEGER ::= 139     -- Maximum DCI format 2-6 size minus 1
maxDCI-2-9-Size-r18                     INTEGER ::= 140     -- Maximum DCI format 2-9 size
maxDCI-2-9-Size-1-r18                   INTEGER ::= 139     -- Maximum DCI format 2-9 size minus 1
maxNrofUL-Allocations-r16               INTEGER ::= 64      -- Maximum number of PUSCH time domain resource allocations
maxNrofUL-Allocations-1-r18             INTEGER ::= 63      -- Maximum number of PUSCH time domain resource allocations minus 1
maxNrofP0-PUSCH-Set-r16                 INTEGER ::= 2       -- Maximum number of P0 PUSCH set(s)
maxOnDemandSIB-r16                      INTEGER ::= 8       -- Maximum number of SIB(s) that can be requested on-demand
maxOnDemandPosSIB-r16                   INTEGER ::= 32      -- Maximum number of posSIB(s) that can be requested on-demand
maxCI-DCI-PayloadSize-r16               INTEGER ::= 126     -- Maximum number of the DCI size for CI
maxCI-DCI-PayloadSize-1-r16             INTEGER ::= 125     -- Maximum number of the DCI size for CI minus 1
maxUu-RelayRLC-ChannelID-r17            INTEGER ::= 32      -- Maximum value of Uu Relay RLC channel ID
maxWLAN-Id-Report-r16                   INTEGER ::= 32      -- Maximum number of WLAN IDs to report
maxWLAN-Name-r16                        INTEGER ::= 4       -- Maximum number of WLAN name
maxRAReport-r16                         INTEGER ::= 8       -- Maximum number of RA procedures information to be included in the RA report
maxTxConfig-r16                         INTEGER ::= 64      -- Maximum number of sidelink transmission parameters configurations
maxTxConfig-1-r16                       INTEGER ::= 63      -- Maximum number of sidelink transmission parameters configurations minus 1
maxPSSCH-TxConfig-r16                   INTEGER ::= 16      -- Maximum number of PSSCH TX configurations
maxNrofCLI-RSSI-Resources-r16           INTEGER ::= 64      -- Maximum number of CLI-RSSI resources for UE
maxNrofCLI-RSSI-Resources-1-r16         INTEGER ::= 63      -- Maximum number of CLI-RSSI resources for UE minus 1
maxNrofCLI-SRS-Resources-r16            INTEGER ::= 32      -- Maximum number of SRS resources for CLI measurement for UE
maxCLI-Report-r16                       INTEGER ::= 8
maxNrofCC-Group-r17                     INTEGER ::= 16      -- Maximum number of CC groups for DC location report
maxNrofConfiguredGrantConfig-r16        INTEGER ::= 12      -- Maximum number of configured grant configurations per BWP
maxNrofConfiguredGrantConfig-1-r16      INTEGER ::= 11      -- Maximum number of configured grant configurations per BWP minus 1
maxNrofCG-Type2DeactivationState        INTEGER ::= 16      -- Maximum number of deactivation state for type 2 configured grants per BWP
maxNrofConfiguredGrantConfigMAC-1-r16   INTEGER ::= 31      -- Maximum number of configured grant configurations per MAC entity minus 1
maxNrofCSI-ReportSubconfigPerCSI-ReportConfig-r18 INTEGER ::= 8 -- Maximum number of CSI report subconfigurations per CSI report
                                                            -- configuration
maxNrofCSI-ReportSubconfigPerCSI-ReportConfig-1-r18 INTEGER ::= 7 -- Maximum number of CSI report subconfigurations per CSI report
                                                            -- configuration minus 1
maxNrofSPS-Config-r16                   INTEGER ::= 8       -- Maximum number of SPS configurations per BWP
maxNrofSPS-Config-1-r16                 INTEGER ::= 7       -- Maximum number of SPS configurations per BWP minus 1
maxNrofSPS-DeactivationState            INTEGER ::= 16      -- Maximum number of deactivation state for SPS per BWP
maxNrofPPW-Config-r17                   INTEGER ::= 4       -- Maximum number of Preconfigured PRS processing windows per DL BWP
maxNrofPPW-ID-1-r17                     INTEGER ::= 15      -- Maximum number of Preconfigured PRS processing windows minus 1
maxNrOfTxTEGReport-r17                  INTEGER ::= 256     -- Maximum number of UE Tx Timing Error Group Report
maxNrOfTxTEG-ID-1-r17                   INTEGER ::= 7       -- Maximum number of UE Tx Timing Error Group ID minus 1
maxNrofPagingSubgroups-r17              INTEGER ::= 8       -- Maximum number of paging subgroups per paging occasion
maxNrofPUCCH-ResourceGroups-1-r16       INTEGER ::= 3
maxNrofReqComDC-Location-r17            INTEGER ::= 128     -- Maximum number of requested carriers/BWPs combinations for DC location
                                                            -- report
maxNrofServingCellsTCI-r16              INTEGER ::= 32      -- Maximum number of serving cells in simultaneousTCI-UpdateList
maxNrofTxDC-TwoCarrier-r16              INTEGER ::= 64      -- Maximum number of UL Tx DC locations reported by the UE for 2CC uplink CA
maxNrofRB-SetGroups-r17                 INTEGER ::= 8       -- Maximum number of RB set groups
maxNrofRB-Sets-r17                      INTEGER ::= 8       -- Maximum number of RB sets
maxNrofEnhType3HARQ-ACK-r17             INTEGER ::= 8       -- Maximum number of enhanced type 3 HARQ-ACK codebook
maxNrofEnhType3HARQ-ACK-1-r17           INTEGER ::= 7       -- Maximum number of enhanced type 3 HARQ-ACK codebook minus 1
maxNrofPRS-ResourcesPerSet-r17          INTEGER ::= 64      -- Maximum number of PRS resources for one set
maxNrofPRS-ResourcesPerSet-1-r17        INTEGER ::= 63      -- Maximum number of PRS resources for one set minus 1
maxNrofPRS-ResourceOffsetValue-1-r17    INTEGER ::= 511
maxNrofGapId-r17                        INTEGER ::= 8       -- Maximum number of measurement gap ID
maxNrofPreConfigPosGapId-r17            INTEGER ::= 16      -- Maximum number of preconfigured positioning measurement gap
maxNrOfGapPri-r17                       INTEGER ::= 16      -- Maximum number of gap priority level
maxCEFReport-r17                        INTEGER ::= 4       -- Maximum number of CEF reports by the UE
maxNrofMultiplePDSCHs-r17               INTEGER ::= 8       -- Maximum number of PDSCHs in PDSCH TDRA list
maxSliceInfo-r17                        INTEGER ::= 8       -- Maximum number of NSAGs
maxCellSlice-r17                        INTEGER ::= 16      -- Maximum number of cells supporting the NSAG
maxNrofTRS-ResourceSets-r17             INTEGER ::= 64      -- Maximum number of TRS resource sets
maxNrofSearchSpaceGroups-1-r17          INTEGER ::= 2       -- Maximum number of search space groups minus 1
maxNrofRemoteUE-r17                     INTEGER ::= 32      -- Maximum number of connected L2 U2N Remote UEs
maxDCI-4-2-Size-r17                     INTEGER ::= 140     -- Maximum size of DCI format 4-2
maxFreqMBS-r17                          INTEGER ::= 16      -- Maximum number of MBS frequencies reported in MBSInterestIndication
maxNrofDRX-ConfigPTM-r17                INTEGER ::= 64      -- Max number of DRX configuration for PTM provided in MBS broadcast in a
                                                            -- cell
maxNrofDRX-ConfigPTM-1-r17              INTEGER ::= 63      -- Max number of DRX configuration for PTM provided in MBS broadcast in a
                                                            -- cell minus 1
maxNrofMBS-ServiceListPerUE-r17         INTEGER ::= 16      -- Maximum number of services which the UE can include in the  MBS interest
                                                            -- indication
maxNrofMBS-Session-r17                  INTEGER ::= 1024    -- Maximum number of MBS sessions provided in MBS broadcast or multicast in
                                                            -- a cell
maxNrofMTCH-SSB-MappingWindow-r17       INTEGER ::= 16      -- Maximum number of MTCH to SSB beam mapping pattern
maxNrofMTCH-SSB-MappingWindow-1-r17     INTEGER ::= 15      -- Maximum number of MTCH to SSB beam mapping pattern minus 1
maxNrofMRB-Broadcast-r17                INTEGER ::= 4       -- Maximum number of broadcast MRBs configured for one MBS broadcast service
maxNrofPageGroup-r17                    INTEGER ::= 32      -- Maximum number of paging groups in a paging message
maxNrofPDSCH-ConfigPTM-r17              INTEGER ::= 16      -- Maximum number of PDSCH configuration groups for PTM
maxNrofPDSCH-ConfigPTM-1-r17            INTEGER ::= 15      -- Maximum number of PDSCH configuration groups for PTM minus 1
maxG-RNTI-r17                           INTEGER ::= 16      -- Maximum number of G-RNTI that can be configured for a UE.
maxG-RNTI-1-r17                         INTEGER ::= 15      -- Maximum number of G-RNTI that can be configured for a UE minus 1.
maxG-CS-RNTI-r17                        INTEGER ::= 8       -- Maximum number of G-CS-RNTI that can be configured for a UE.
maxG-CS-RNTI-1-r17                      INTEGER ::= 7       -- Maximum number of G-CS-RNTI that can be configured for a UE minus 1.
maxMRB-r17                              INTEGER ::= 32      -- Maximum number of multicast MRBs (that can be added in MRB-ToAddModLIst)
maxFSAI-MBS-r17                         INTEGER ::= 64      -- Maximum number of MBS frequency selection area identities
maxNeighCellMBS-r17                     INTEGER ::= 8       -- Maximum number of MBS broadcast neighbour cells
maxNrofPdcch-BlindDetectionMixed-1-r16  INTEGER ::= 7       -- Maximum number of combinations of mixed Rel-16 and Rel-15 PDCCH
                                                            -- monitoring capabilities minus 1
maxNrofPdcch-BlindDetection-r17         INTEGER ::= 16      -- Maximum number of combinations of PDCCH blind detection monitoring
                                                            -- capabilities
maxNrofAltitudeRanges-r18               INTEGER ::= 8       -- Maximum number of altitude ranges for altitude-based measurement configurations
maxWayPoint-r18                         INTEGER ::= 20      -- Maximum number of flight path information waypoints
maxAltitude-r18                         INTEGER ::= 10000   -- Maximum altitude in meters
minAltitude-r18                         INTEGER ::= -420    -- Minimum altitude in meters
maxMeasSequence-r18                     INTEGER ::= 64      -- Maximum number of configured sequence for measurement
maxNrofHops-1-r18                       INTEGER ::= 5       -- Maximum number of Hops that can be configured for Positioning SRS Transmission
maxNrOfCellsInVA-r18                    INTEGER ::= 16      -- Maximum number of cells in validity area for Positioning SRS
maxNrOfCellsInVA-Ext-r18                INTEGER ::= 16      -- Maximum number of additional cells in validity area for Positioning SRS
maxNrOfLinkedSRS-PosResourceSet-r18     INTEGER ::= 3       -- Maximum number of linked SRSPosResourceSets that can be aggregated across
                                                            -- CCs
maxNrOfLinkedSRS-PosResSetComb-r18       INTEGER ::= 32     -- Maximum number of combinations of linked SRSPosResourceSets that can be
                                                            -- aggregated in RRC_CONNECTED state
maxNrOfLinkedSRS-PosResSetCombInactive-r18 INTEGER ::= 16   -- Maximum number of combinations of linked SRSPosResourceSets that can be
                                                            -- aggregated in RRC_INACTIVE state
maxCBR-ConfigDedSL-PRS-1-r18            INTEGER ::= 7       -- Maximum number of CBR ranges for dedicated SL PRS resource pool
maxCBR-LevelDedSL-PRS-1-r18             INTEGER ::= 15      -- Maximum number of CBR levels for dedicated SL PRS resource pool
maxNrofSL-PRS-TxPool-r18                INTEGER ::= 8       -- Maximum number of Tx dedicated SL-PRS resource pool for NR sidelink positioning
maxNrofSL-PRS-TxConfig-r18              INTEGER ::= 64      -- Maximum number of SL PRS transmission parameter configurations
maxNrOfVA-r18                           INTEGER ::= 16      -- Maximum number of validity area
maxNrofLTM-Configs-r18                  INTEGER ::= 8       -- Maximum number of LTM candidate cells
maxNrofLTM-Configs-plus1-r18          INTEGER ::= 9       -- Maximum number of LTM candidate cells plus 1
maxNrofLTM-CSI-ReportConfigurations-r18     INTEGER ::= 48     -- Maximum number of LTM CSI reporting configurations
maxNrofLTM-CSI-ReportConfigurations-1-r18   INTEGER ::= 47     -- Maximum number of LTM CSI reporting configurations minus 1
maxNrofLTM-CSI-SSB-ResourcesPerSet-r18      INTEGER ::= 512    -- Maximum number of LTM CSI SSB resource per set
maxNrofLTM-CSI-ResourceConfigurations-r18   INTEGER ::= 112    -- Maximum number of LTM CSI resource configurations
maxNrofLTM-CSI-ResourceConfigurations-1-r18 INTEGER ::= 111    -- Maximum number of LTM CSI resource configurations minus 1
maxNrofCandidateTCI-State-r18           INTEGER ::= 128     -- Maximum number of LTM TCI states
maxNrofCandidateUL-TCI-r18              INTEGER ::= 64      -- Maximum number of LTM UL TCI states
maxSecurityCellSet-r18                  INTEGER ::= 9       -- Maximum number of cell sets for subsequent CPAC.
maxSK-Counter-r18                       INTEGER ::= 8       -- Maximum number of SK-counters configured for a cell set for subsequent CPAC.
maxNrofThresholdMBS-r18                 INTEGER ::= 8       -- Max number of thresholds of MBS sessions for RRC connection resume for a
                                                            -- UE receiving multicast in RRC_INACTIVE
maxNrofThresholdMBS-1-r18               INTEGER ::= 7       -- Max number of thresholds of MBS sessions for RRC connection resume for a
                                                            -- UE receiving multicast in RRC_INACTIVE minus 1
maxTN-AreaInfo-r18                      INTEGER ::= 32      -- Maximum number of TN coverage areas for which assistance info is
                                                            -- provided in an NTN cell
maxNrofSetsOfCells-r18                  INTEGER ::= 4       -- Maximum number of sets of cells for multi-cell PDSCH/PUSCH scheduling
maxNrofSetsOfCells-1-r18                INTEGER ::= 3       -- Maximum number of sets of cells for multi-cell PDSCH/PUSCH scheduling
                                                            -- minus 1
maxNrofCellsInSet-r18                   INTEGER ::= 4       -- Maximum number of cells configured in a set of cells for multi-cell
                                                            -- PDSCH/PUSCH scheduling
maxNrofCellsInSet-1-r18                 INTEGER ::= 3       -- Maximum number of cells configured in a set of cells for multi-cell
                                                            -- PDSCH/PUSCH scheduling minus 1
maxNrofCellCombos-r18                   INTEGER ::= 16      -- Maximum number of combinations of co-scheduled cells for multi-cell
                                                            -- PDSCH/PUSCH scheduling
maxNrofBWPsInSetOfCells-r18             INTEGER ::= 16      -- Maximum number of BWPs configured in a set of cells for multi-cell
                                                            -- PDSCH/PUSCH scheduling
maxLowerMSD-r18                         INTEGER ::= 256     -- Maximum number of lower MSD capability sets for a victim band
maxLowerMSDInfo-r18                     INTEGER ::= 64      -- Maximum number of lower MSD capability sets for a band combination
maxNrofIntraEndc-Components-r17         INTEGER ::= 4       -- Maximum number of intra-band (NG)EN-DC band components in an inter-band
                                                            -- (NG)EN-DC band combination

-- TAG-MULTIPLICITY-AND-TYPE-CONSTRAINT-DEFINITIONS-STOP
-- ASN1STOP

–	End of NR-RRC-Definitions
-- ASN1START

END

-- ASN1STOP

6.5	Short Message
Short Messages can be transmitted on PDCCH using P-RNTI with or without associated Paging message using Short Message field in DCI format 1_0 (see TS 38.212 [17], clause 7.3.1.2.1).
Table 6.5-1 defines Short Messages. Bit 1 is the most significant bit.
Table 6.5-1: Short Messages


6.6	PC5 RRC messages
6.6.1	General message structure
–	PC5-RRC-Definitions
This ASN.1 segment is the start of the PC5 RRC PDU definitions.
-- ASN1START
-- TAG-PC5-RRC-DEFINITIONS-START

PC5-RRC-Definitions DEFINITIONS AUTOMATIC TAGS ::=

BEGIN

IMPORTS
    ARFCN-ValueNR,
    CellAccessRelatedInfo,
    SetupRelease,
    RRC-TransactionIdentifier,
    SN-FieldLengthAM,
    SN-FieldLengthUM,
    LogicalChannelIdentity,
    maxNrofSLRB-r16,
    maxNrofSL-RxInfoSet-r17,
    maxNrofSL-QFIs-r16,
    maxNrofSL-QFIsPerDest-r16,
    PagingCycle,
    PagingRecord,
    RSRP-Range,
    SL-MeasConfig-r16,
    SL-MeasId-r16,
    FreqBandList,
    FreqBandIndicatorNR,
    GNSS-ID-r16,
    maxNrofRelayMeas-r17,
    maxSimultaneousBands,
    maxBandComb,
    maxBands,
    maxSIB,
    maxSIB-MessagePlus1-r17,
    maxSL-LCID-r16,
    maxNrofFreqSL-1-r18,
    BandParametersSidelink-r16,
    PagingRecord-v1700,
    RLC-ParametersSidelink-r16,
    SBAS-ID-r16,
    SIB1,
    SL-DRX-ConfigUC-r17,
    SL-DRX-ConfigUC-SemiStatic-r17,
    SL-PagingIdentityRemoteUE-r17,
    SL-RLC-ChannelID-r17,
    SL-SourceIdentity-r17,
    SystemInformation,
    maxNrofSL-Dest-r16,
    SL-DestinationIdentity-r16,
    SL-RelayIndicationMP-r18,
    SL-RSRP-Range-r16,
    SL-QoS-FlowIdentity-r16,
    SL-QoS-Info-r16,
    maxNrofPhysicalResourceBlocks,
    SubcarrierSpacing
FROM NR-RRC-Definitions;

-- TAG-PC5-RRC-DEFINITIONS-STOP
-- ASN1STOP

–	SBCCH-SL-BCH-Message
The SBCCH-SL-BCH-Message class is the set of RRC messages that may be sent from the UE to the UE via SL-BCH on the SBCCH logical channel.
-- ASN1START
-- TAG-SBCCH-SL-BCH-MESSAGE-START

SBCCH-SL-BCH-Message ::= SEQUENCE {
    message                  SBCCH-SL-BCH-MessageType
}

SBCCH-SL-BCH-MessageType::=     CHOICE {
    c1                              CHOICE {
        masterInformationBlockSidelink              MasterInformationBlockSidelink,
        spare1 NULL
    },
    messageClassExtension   SEQUENCE {}
}

-- TAG-SBCCH-SL-BCH-MESSAGE-STOP
-- ASN1STOP

–	SCCH-Message
The SCCH-Message class is the set of PC5-RRC messages that may be sent from the UE to the UE for unicast of NR sidelink communication on SCCH logical channel.
-- ASN1START
-- TAG-SCCH-MESSAGE-START

SCCH-Message ::=             SEQUENCE {
    message                         SCCH-MessageType
}

SCCH-MessageType ::=         CHOICE {
    c1                              CHOICE {
        measurementReportSidelink                MeasurementReportSidelink,
        rrcReconfigurationSidelink               RRCReconfigurationSidelink,
        rrcReconfigurationCompleteSidelink       RRCReconfigurationCompleteSidelink,
        rrcReconfigurationFailureSidelink        RRCReconfigurationFailureSidelink,
        ueCapabilityEnquirySidelink              UECapabilityEnquirySidelink,
        ueCapabilityInformationSidelink          UECapabilityInformationSidelink,
        uuMessageTransferSidelink-r17            UuMessageTransferSidelink-r17,
        remoteUEInformationSidelink-r17          RemoteUEInformationSidelink-r17
    },
    messageClassExtension           CHOICE {
        c2                              CHOICE {
            notificationMessageSidelink-r17 NotificationMessageSidelink-r17,
            ueAssistanceInformationSidelink-r17 UEAssistanceInformationSidelink-r17,
            ueInformationRequestSidelink-r18    UEInformationRequestSidelink-r18,
            ueInformationResponseSidelink-r18   UEInformationResponseSidelink-r18, spare4 NULL, spare3 NULL, spare2 NULL, spare1 NULL
        },
        messageClassExtensionFuture-r17    SEQUENCE {}
    }
}

-- TAG-SCCH-MESSAGE-STOP
-- ASN1STOP

6.6.2	Message definitions
–	MasterInformationBlockSidelink
The MasterInformationBlockSidelink includes the system information transmitted by a UE via SL-BCH.
Signalling radio bearer: N/A
RLC-SAP: TM
Logical channel: SBCCH
Direction: UE to UE
MasterInformationBlockSidelink
-- ASN1START
-- TAG-MASTERINFORMATIONBLOCKSIDELINK-START

MasterInformationBlockSidelink ::=           SEQUENCE {
    sl-TDD-Config-r16                            BIT STRING (SIZE (12)),
    inCoverage-r16                               BOOLEAN,
    directFrameNumber-r16                        BIT STRING (SIZE (10)),
    slotIndex-r16                                BIT STRING (SIZE (7)),
    reservedBits-r16                             BIT STRING (SIZE (2))
}

-- TAG-MASTERINFORMATIONBLOCKSIDELINK-STOP
-- ASN1STOP



–	MeasurementReportSidelink
The MeasurementReportSidelink message is used for the indication of measurement results of NR sidelink.
Signalling radio bearer: SL-SRB3
RLC-SAP: AM
Logical channel: SCCH
Direction: UE to UE
MeasurementReportSidelink message
-- ASN1START
-- TAG-MEASUREMENTREPORTSIDELINK-START

MeasurementReportSidelink ::=                   SEQUENCE {
    criticalExtensions                              CHOICE {
        measurementReportSidelink-r16                   MeasurementReportSidelink-r16-IEs,
        criticalExtensionsFuture                        SEQUENCE {}
    }
}

MeasurementReportSidelink-r16-IEs ::=           SEQUENCE {
    sl-MeasResults-r16                              SL-MeasResults-r16,
    lateNonCriticalExtension                        OCTET STRING                                                            OPTIONAL,
    nonCriticalExtension                            SEQUENCE{}                                                              OPTIONAL
}

SL-MeasResults-r16 ::=                          SEQUENCE {
    sl-MeasId-r16                                   SL-MeasId-r16,
    sl-MeasResult-r16                               SL-MeasResult-r16,
    ...
}

SL-MeasResult-r16 ::=                           SEQUENCE {
    sl-ResultDMRS-r16                               SL-MeasQuantityResult-r16                                               OPTIONAL,
    ...,
    [[
    sl-Result-SL-PRS-r18                            SL-MeasQuantityResult-r16                                               OPTIONAL
    ]]
}

SL-MeasQuantityResult-r16 ::=                   SEQUENCE {
    sl-RSRP-r16                                     RSRP-Range                                                              OPTIONAL,
    ...,
    [[
    sl-RSRP-DedicatedSL-PRS-RP-r18                  SL-RSRP-Range-r16                                                       OPTIONAL
    ]]
}

SL-MeasResultListRelay-r17 ::=                  SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxNrofRelayMeas-r17)) OF SL-MeasResultRelay-r17

SL-MeasResultRelay-r17 ::=                      SEQUENCE {
    cellIdentity-r17                                CellAccessRelatedInfo,
    sl-RelayUE-Identity-r17                         SL-SourceIdentity-r17,
    sl-MeasResult-r17                               SL-MeasResult-r16,
    ...,
    [[
    sl-MeasQuantity-r18                             ENUMERATED { sl-rsrp, sd-rsrp }                                         OPTIONAL,
    sl-RelayIndicationMP-r18                        SL-RelayIndicationMP-r18                                                OPTIONAL
    ]]
}

-- TAG-MEASUREMENTREPORTSIDELINK-STOP
-- ASN1STOP



–	NotificationMessageSidelink
The NotificationMessageSidelink message is used to send notification message from U2N Relay UE to the connected U2N Remote UE or from U2U Relay UE to the connected U2U Remote UE.
Signalling radio bearer: SL-SRB3
RLC-SAP: AM
Logical channel: SCCH
Direction: U2N Relay UE to U2N Remote UE or U2U Relay UE to U2U Remote UE
NotificationMessageSidelink message
-- ASN1START
-- TAG-NOTIFICATIONMESSAGESIDELINK-START

NotificationMessageSidelink-r17 ::=       SEQUENCE {
    criticalExtensions                        CHOICE {
        notificationMessageSidelink-r17           NotificationMessageSidelink-r17-IEs,
        criticalExtensionsFuture                  SEQUENCE {}
    }
}

NotificationMessageSidelink-r17-IEs ::=   SEQUENCE {
    indicationType-r17                        ENUMERATED {
                                                  relayUE-Uu-RLF, relayUE-HO, relayUE-CellReselection,
                                                  relayUE-Uu-RRC-Failure
                                              }                                     OPTIONAL,  -- Need N
    lateNonCriticalExtension                  OCTET STRING                          OPTIONAL,
    nonCriticalExtension                      NotificationMessageSidelink-v1800-IEs OPTIONAL
}

NotificationMessageSidelink-v1800-IEs ::= SEQUENCE {
    sl-IndicationType-r18                     ENUMERATED {relayUE-PC5-RLF, spare1}  OPTIONAL,  -- Need N
    sl-DestinationIdentityRemoteUE-r18        SL-DestinationIdentity-r16            OPTIONAL,  -- Need N
    nonCriticalExtension                      SEQUENCE {}                           OPTIONAL
}
-- TAG-NOTIFICATIONMESSAGESIDELINK -STOP
-- ASN1STOP

–	RemoteUEInformationSidelink
The RemoteUEInformationSidelink message is used to request SIB(s) or provide paging related information, or provide other remote UE information, as specified in clause 5.8.9.8.1.
Signalling radio bearer: SL-SRB3
RLC-SAP: AM
Logical channel: SCCH
Direction: L2 U2N Remote UE to L2 U2N Relay UE, or L2 U2U Remote UE to L2 U2U Relay UE
RemoteUEInformationSidelink message
-- ASN1START
-- TAG-REMOTEUEINFORMATIONSIDELINK-START

RemoteUEInformationSidelink-r17 ::=           SEQUENCE {
    criticalExtensions                            CHOICE {
        remoteUEInformationSidelink-r17               RemoteUEInformationSidelink-r17-IEs,
        criticalExtensionsFuture                      SEQUENCE {}
    }
}

RemoteUEInformationSidelink-r17-IEs ::=       SEQUENCE {
    sl-RequestedSIB-List-r17                      SetupRelease { SL-RequestedSIB-List-r17}          OPTIONAL, -- Need M
    sl-PagingInfo-RemoteUE-r17                    SetupRelease { SL-PagingInfo-RemoteUE-r17}         OPTIONAL, -- Need M
    lateNonCriticalExtension                      OCTET STRING                                       OPTIONAL,
    nonCriticalExtension                          RemoteUEInformationSidelink-v1800-IEs              OPTIONAL
}

RemoteUEInformationSidelink-v1800-IEs ::=    SEQUENCE {
    sl-RequestedPosSIB-List-r18                  SetupRelease { SL-RequestedPosSIB-List-r18 }       OPTIONAL,  -- Need M
    sl-SFN-DFN-OffsetRequested-r18               ENUMERATED { true }                                OPTIONAL,  -- Need R
    connectionForMP-r18                          ENUMERATED {true}                                  OPTIONAL,  -- Need N
    sl-DestinationIdentityRemoteUE-r18           SL-DestinationIdentity-r16                         OPTIONAL,  -- Need N
    nonCriticalExtension                         SEQUENCE {}                                        OPTIONAL
}

SL-RequestedSIB-List-r17 ::=                 SEQUENCE (SIZE (maxSIB-MessagePlus1-r17)) OF SL-SIB-ReqInfo-r17

SL-PagingInfo-RemoteUE-r17 ::=                SEQUENCE {
    sl-PagingIdentityRemoteUE-r17                 SL-PagingIdentityRemoteUE-r17,
    sl-PagingCycleRemoteUE-r17                    PagingCycle                                        OPTIONAL  -- Need M
}

SL-SIB-ReqInfo-r17 ::=                   ENUMERATED { sib1, sib2, sib3, sib4, sib5, sib6, sib7, sib8, sib9, sib10, sib11, sib12, sib13,
                                                      sib14, sib15, sib16, sib17, sib18, sib19, sib20, sib21, sibNotReq11, sibNotReq10,
                                                      sibNotReq9, sibNotReq8, sibNotReq7, sibNotReq6, sibNotReq5, sibNotReq4,
                                                      sibNotReq3, sibNotReq2, sibNotReq1, ..., sib17bis-v1820 }

SL-RequestedPosSIB-List-r18 ::=          SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxSIB)) OF SL-PosSIB-ReqInfo-r18

SL-PosSIB-ReqInfo-r18 ::=                SEQUENCE {
    gnss-id-r18                              GNSS-ID-r16                                            OPTIONAL,   -- Need R
    sbas-id-r18                              SBAS-ID-r16                                            OPTIONAL,   -- Cond GNSS-ID-SBAS
    posSibType-r18              ENUMERATED { posSibType1-1, posSibType1-2, posSibType1-3, posSibType1-4, posSibType1-5, posSibType1-6,
                                             posSibType1-7, posSibType1-8, posSibType1-9, posSibType1-10, posSibType1-11,
                                             posSibType1-12, posSibType2-1, posSibType2-2, posSibType2-3, posSibType2-4, posSibType2-5,
                                             posSibType2-6, posSibType2-7, posSibType2-8, posSibType2-9, posSibType2-10, posSibType2-11,
                                             posSibType2-12, posSibType2-13, posSibType2-14, posSibType2-15, posSibType2-16,
                                             posSibType2-17, posSibType2-17a, posSibType2-18, posSibType2-18a, posSibType2-19,
                                             posSibType2-20, posSibType2-20a, posSibType2-21, posSibType2-22, posSibType2-23,
                                             posSibType2-24, posSibType2-25, posSibType2-26, posSibType2-27, posSibType3-1,
                                             posSibType4-1, posSibType5-1, posSibType6-1, posSibType6-2, posSibType6-3, posSibType6-4,
                                             posSibType6-5, posSibType6-6, posSibType6-7, posSibType7-1, posSibType7-2, posSibType7-3,
                                             posSibType7-4, spare9, spare8, spare7, spare6, spare5, spare4, spare3, spare2, spare1,
                                             ... }
}

-- TAG-REMOTEUEINFORMATIONSIDELINK-STOP
-- ASN1STOP





–	RRCReconfigurationSidelink
The RRCReconfigurationSidelink message is the command to AS configuration of the PC5 RRC connection. It is only applied to unicast of NR sidelink communication.
Signalling radio bearer: SL-SRB3
RLC-SAP: AM
Logical channel: SCCH
Direction: UE to UE
RRCReconfigurationSidelink message
-- ASN1START
-- TAG-RRCRECONFIGURATIONSIDELINK-START

RRCReconfigurationSidelink ::=          SEQUENCE {
    rrc-TransactionIdentifier-r16           RRC-TransactionIdentifier,
    criticalExtensions                      CHOICE {
        rrcReconfigurationSidelink-r16          RRCReconfigurationSidelink-r16-IEs,
        criticalExtensionsFuture                SEQUENCE {}
    }
}

RRCReconfigurationSidelink-r16-IEs ::=  SEQUENCE {
    slrb-ConfigToAddModList-r16             SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxNrofSLRB-r16)) OF SLRB-Config-r16             OPTIONAL, -- Need N
    slrb-ConfigToReleaseList-r16            SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxNrofSLRB-r16)) OF SLRB-PC5-ConfigIndex-r16    OPTIONAL, -- Need N
    sl-MeasConfig-r16                       SetupRelease {SL-MeasConfig-r16}                                    OPTIONAL, -- Need M
    sl-CSI-RS-Config-r16                    SetupRelease {SL-CSI-RS-Config-r16}                                 OPTIONAL, -- Need M
    sl-ResetConfig-r16                      ENUMERATED {true}                                                   OPTIONAL, -- Need N
    sl-LatencyBoundCSI-Report-r16           INTEGER (3..160)                                                    OPTIONAL, -- Need M
    lateNonCriticalExtension                OCTET STRING                                                        OPTIONAL,
    nonCriticalExtension                    RRCReconfigurationSidelink-v1700-IEs                                OPTIONAL
}

RRCReconfigurationSidelink-v1700-IEs ::= SEQUENCE {
    sl-DRX-ConfigUC-PC5-r17                 SetupRelease { SL-DRX-ConfigUC-r17 }                                OPTIONAL, -- Need M
    sl-LatencyBoundIUC-Report-r17           SetupRelease { SL-LatencyBoundIUC-Report-r17 }                      OPTIONAL, -- Need M
    sl-RLC-ChannelToReleaseListPC5-r17      SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxSL-LCID-r16)) OF SL-RLC-ChannelID-r17         OPTIONAL, -- Need N
    sl-RLC-ChannelToAddModListPC5-r17       SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxSL-LCID-r16)) OF SL-RLC-ChannelConfigPC5-r17  OPTIONAL, -- Need N
    nonCriticalExtension                    RRCReconfigurationSidelink-v1800-IEs                                OPTIONAL
}

RRCReconfigurationSidelink-v1800-IEs ::= SEQUENCE {
    sl-SFN-DFN-Offset-r18                   SetupRelease { SL-SFN-DFN-Offset-r18 }                                OPTIONAL, -- Need M
    sl-CarrierToAddModList-r18              SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxNrofFreqSL-1-r18)) OF SL-CarrierConfig-r18      OPTIONAL, -- Need N
    sl-CarrierToReleaseList-r18             SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxNrofFreqSL-1-r18)) OF SL-CarrierId-r18          OPTIONAL, -- Need N
    sl-RLC-BearerToAddModList-r18           SEQUENCE (SIZE(1..maxNrofSLRB-r16)) OF SL-RLC-BearerConfig-r18        OPTIONAL, -- Need N
    sl-RLC-BearerToReleaseList-r18          SEQUENCE (SIZE(1..maxNrofSLRB-r16)) OF SL-RLC-BearerConfigIndex-r18   OPTIONAL, -- Need N
    sl-LocalID-PairList-r18                 SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxNrofSL-Dest-r16)) OF SL-SRAP-ConfigPC5-r18      OPTIONAL, -- Need N
    nonCriticalExtension                    SEQUENCE {}                                                           OPTIONAL
}

SL-CarrierConfig-r18 ::= SEQUENCE {
    sl-CarrierId-r18                        SL-CarrierId-r18,
    sl-OffsetToCarrier-r18                  INTEGER (0..2199),
    subcarrierSpacing-r18                   SubcarrierSpacing,
    carrierBandwidth-r18                    INTEGER (1..maxNrofPhysicalResourceBlocks),
    sl-AbsoluteFrequencyPointA-r18          ARFCN-ValueNR
}

SL-CarrierId-r18 ::=                    INTEGER (1..maxNrofFreqSL-1-r18)

SL-RLC-BearerConfig-r18 ::=         CHOICE {
    srb                                 SEQUENCE {
        sl-SRB-IdentityWithDuplication      INTEGER (1..3),
        sL-RLC-BearerConfigIndex-r18        SL-RLC-BearerConfigIndex-r18,
        ...
    },
    drb                                 SEQUENCE {
        slrb-PC5-ConfigIndex-r18            SLRB-PC5-ConfigIndex-r16,
        sL-RLC-BearerConfigIndex-r18        SL-RLC-BearerConfigIndex-r18,
        sl-RLC-ConfigPC5-r18                SL-RLC-ConfigPC5-r16                                                OPTIONAL, -- Need M
        sl-MAC-LogicalChannelConfigPC5-r18  SL-LogicalChannelConfigPC5-r16                                      OPTIONAL, -- Need M
        ...
    }
}

SL-RLC-BearerConfigIndex-r18 ::=        INTEGER (1..maxSL-LCID-r16)

SL-LatencyBoundIUC-Report-r17::=            INTEGER (3..160)

SLRB-Config-r16::=                      SEQUENCE {
    slrb-PC5-ConfigIndex-r16                SLRB-PC5-ConfigIndex-r16,
    sl-SDAP-ConfigPC5-r16                   SL-SDAP-ConfigPC5-r16                                               OPTIONAL, -- Need M
    sl-PDCP-ConfigPC5-r16                   SL-PDCP-ConfigPC5-r16                                               OPTIONAL, -- Need M
    sl-RLC-ConfigPC5-r16                    SL-RLC-ConfigPC5-r16                                                OPTIONAL, -- Need M
    sl-MAC-LogicalChannelConfigPC5-r16      SL-LogicalChannelConfigPC5-r16                                      OPTIONAL, -- Need M
    ...
}

SLRB-PC5-ConfigIndex-r16 ::=            INTEGER (1..maxNrofSLRB-r16)

SL-SDAP-ConfigPC5-r16 ::=               SEQUENCE {
    sl-MappedQoS-FlowsToAddList-r16         SEQUENCE (SIZE (1.. maxNrofSL-QFIsPerDest-r16)) OF SL-PQFI-r16      OPTIONAL, -- Need N
    sl-MappedQoS-FlowsToReleaseList-r16     SEQUENCE (SIZE (1.. maxNrofSL-QFIsPerDest-r16)) OF SL-PQFI-r16      OPTIONAL, -- Need N
    sl-SDAP-Header-r16                      ENUMERATED {present, absent},
    ...
}

SL-PDCP-ConfigPC5-r16 ::=               SEQUENCE {
    sl-PDCP-SN-Size-r16                     ENUMERATED {len12bits, len18bits}                                   OPTIONAL, -- Need M
    sl-OutOfOrderDelivery-r16               ENUMERATED { true }                                                 OPTIONAL,  -- Need R
    ...
}

SL-RLC-ConfigPC5-r16 ::=                CHOICE {
    sl-AM-RLC-r16                           SEQUENCE {
        sl-SN-FieldLengthAM-r16                 SN-FieldLengthAM                                                OPTIONAL, -- Need M
        ...
    },
    sl-UM-Bi-Directional-RLC-r16            SEQUENCE {
        sl-SN-FieldLengthUM-r16                 SN-FieldLengthUM                                                OPTIONAL, -- Need M
        ...
    },
    sl-UM-Uni-Directional-RLC-r16           SEQUENCE {
        sl-SN-FieldLengthUM-r16                 SN-FieldLengthUM                                                OPTIONAL, -- Need M
        ...
    }
}

SL-LogicalChannelConfigPC5-r16 ::=      SEQUENCE {
    sl-LogicalChannelIdentity-r16           LogicalChannelIdentity,
    ...,
    [[
    sl-LogicalChannelIdentity-v1800     INTEGER (33..38)                                                        OPTIONAL  -- Need M
    ]]
}

SL-PQFI-r16 ::=                         INTEGER (1..64)

SL-CSI-RS-Config-r16 ::=                SEQUENCE {
    sl-CSI-RS-FreqAllocation-r16            CHOICE {
        sl-OneAntennaPort-r16                   BIT STRING (SIZE (12)),
        sl-TwoAntennaPort-r16                   BIT STRING (SIZE (6))
    }                                                                                                           OPTIONAL, -- Need M
    sl-CSI-RS-FirstSymbol-r16               INTEGER (3..12)                                                     OPTIONAL, -- Need M
    ...
}

SL-RLC-ChannelConfigPC5-r17::=          SEQUENCE {
    sl-RLC-ChannelID-PC5-r17                SL-RLC-ChannelID-r17,
    sl-RLC-ConfigPC5-r17                    SL-RLC-ConfigPC5-r16                                                OPTIONAL, -- Need M
    sl-MAC-LogicalChannelConfigPC5-r17      SL-LogicalChannelConfigPC5-r16                                      OPTIONAL, -- Need M
    ...
}

SL-SFN-DFN-Offset-r18 ::=               SEQUENCE {
    sl-FrameOffset-r18                      INTEGER (0..1023),
    sl-SubframeOffset-r18                   INTEGER (0..9),
    sl-SlotOffset-r18                       INTEGER (0..31)
}

SL-SRAP-ConfigPC5-r18 ::=               SEQUENCE {
    sl-PeerRemoteUE-L2Identity-r18          SL-DestinationIdentity-r16                                          OPTIONAL, -- Need M
    sl-PeerRemoteUE-LocalIdentity-r18       INTEGER (0..255)                                                    OPTIONAL, -- Need M
    sl-RemoteUE-L2Identity-r18              SL-SourceIdentity-r17                                               OPTIONAL, -- Need M
    sl-RemoteUE-LocalIdentity-r18           INTEGER (0..255)                                                    OPTIONAL, -- Need M
    ...
}

-- TAG-RRCRECONFIGURATIONSIDELINK-STOP
-- ASN1STOP





–	RRCReconfigurationCompleteSidelink
The RRCReconfigurationCompleteSidelink message is used to confirm the successful completion of a PC5 RRC AS reconfiguration. It is only applied to unicast of NR sidelink communication.
Signalling radio bearer: SL-SRB3
RLC-SAP: AM
Logical channel: SCCH
Direction: UE to UE
RRCReconfigurationCompleteSidelink message
-- ASN1START
-- TAG-RRCRECONFIGURATIONCOMPLETESIDELINK-START

RRCReconfigurationCompleteSidelink ::=         SEQUENCE {
    rrc-TransactionIdentifier-r16                  RRC-TransactionIdentifier,
    criticalExtensions                             CHOICE {
        rrcReconfigurationCompleteSidelink-r16         RRCReconfigurationCompleteSidelink-r16-IEs,
        criticalExtensionsFuture                       SEQUENCE {}
    }
}

RRCReconfigurationCompleteSidelink-r16-IEs ::= SEQUENCE {
    lateNonCriticalExtension                       OCTET STRING                                                       OPTIONAL,
    nonCriticalExtension                           RRCReconfigurationCompleteSidelink-v1710-IEs                       OPTIONAL
}

RRCReconfigurationCompleteSidelink-v1710-IEs ::=   SEQUENCE {
    dummy                                              ENUMERATED {true},
    nonCriticalExtension                               RRCReconfigurationCompleteSidelink-v1720-IEs                   OPTIONAL
}


RRCReconfigurationCompleteSidelink-v1720-IEs ::=   SEQUENCE {
    sl-DRX-ConfigReject-v1720                          ENUMERATED {true}                                              OPTIONAL,
    nonCriticalExtension                               SEQUENCE {}                                                    OPTIONAL
}

-- TAG-RRCRECONFIGURATIONCOMPLETESIDELINK-STOP
-- ASN1STOP



–	RRCReconfigurationFailureSidelink
The RRCReconfigurationFailureSidelink message is used to indicate the failure of a PC5 RRC AS reconfiguration. It is only applied to unicast of NR sidelink communication.
Signalling radio bearer: SL-SRB3
RLC-SAP: AM
Logical channel: SCCH
Direction: UE to UE
RRCReconfigurationFailureSidelink message
-- ASN1START
-- TAG-RRCRECONFIGURATIONFAILURESIDELINK-START

RRCReconfigurationFailureSidelink ::=         SEQUENCE {
    rrc-TransactionIdentifier-r16                 RRC-TransactionIdentifier,
    criticalExtensions                            CHOICE {
        rrcReconfigurationFailureSidelink-r16         RRCReconfigurationFailureSidelink-r16-IEs,
        criticalExtensionsFuture                      SEQUENCE {}
    }
}

RRCReconfigurationFailureSidelink-r16-IEs ::= SEQUENCE {
    lateNonCriticalExtension                      OCTET STRING                                                         OPTIONAL,
    nonCriticalExtension                          SEQUENCE {}                                                          OPTIONAL
}

-- TAG-RRCRECONFIGURATIONFAILURESIDELINK-STOP
-- ASN1STOP


–	UEAssistanceInformationSidelink
The UEAssistanceInformationSidelink message may include sidelink DRX assistance information used to determine the sidelink DRX configuration.
Signalling radio bearer: SL-SRB3
RLC-SAP: AM
Logical channel: SCCH
Direction: UE to UE
UEAssistanceInformationSidelink message
-- ASN1START
-- TAG-UEASSISTANCEINFORMATIONSIDELINK-START

UEAssistanceInformationSidelink-r17 ::=       SEQUENCE {
    criticalExtensions                            CHOICE {
        ueAssistanceInformationSidelink-r17           UEAssistanceInformationSidelink-r17-IEs,
        criticalExtensionsFuture                      SEQUENCE {}
    }
}

UEAssistanceInformationSidelink-r17-IEs ::=   SEQUENCE {
    sl-PreferredDRX-ConfigList-r17                SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxNrofSL-RxInfoSet-r17)) OF SL-DRX-ConfigUC-SemiStatic-r17
                                                                                                        OPTIONAL, -- Need R
    lateNonCriticalExtension                      OCTET STRING                                          OPTIONAL,
    nonCriticalExtension                          SEQUENCE {}                                           OPTIONAL
}

-- TAG-UEASSISTANCEINFORMATIONSIDELINK-STOP
-- ASN1STOP



–	UECapabilityEnquirySidelink
The UECapabilityEnquirySidelink message is used to request UE sidelink capabilities. It is only applied to unicast of NR sidelink communication.
Signalling radio bearer: SL-SRB3
RLC-SAP: AM
Logical channel: SCCH
Direction: UE to UE
UECapabilityEnquirySidelink message
-- ASN1START
-- TAG-UECAPABILITYENQUIRYSIDELINK-START

UECapabilityEnquirySidelink ::=         SEQUENCE {
    rrc-TransactionIdentifier-r16           RRC-TransactionIdentifier,
    criticalExtensions                      CHOICE {
        ueCapabilityEnquirySidelink-r16         UECapabilityEnquirySidelink-r16-IEs,
        criticalExtensionsFuture                SEQUENCE {}
    }
}

UECapabilityEnquirySidelink-r16-IEs ::= SEQUENCE {
    frequencyBandListFilterSidelink-r16     FreqBandList                                                            OPTIONAL, -- Need N
    ue-CapabilityInformationSidelink-r16    OCTET STRING                                                            OPTIONAL, -- Need N
    lateNonCriticalExtension                OCTET STRING                                                            OPTIONAL,
    nonCriticalExtension                    SEQUENCE{}                                                              OPTIONAL
}

-- TAG-UECAPABILITYENQUIRYSIDELINK-STOP
-- ASN1STOP



–	UECapabilityInformationSidelink
The UECapabilityInformationSidelink message is used to transfer UE radio access capabilities. It is only applied to unicast of NR sidelink communication.
Signalling radio bearer: SL-SRB3
RLC-SAP: AM
Logical channel: SCCH
Direction: UE to UE
UECapabilityInformationSidelink message
-- ASN1START
-- TAG-UECAPABILITYINFORMATIONSIDELINK-START

UECapabilityInformationSidelink ::=         SEQUENCE {
    rrc-TransactionIdentifier-r16               RRC-TransactionIdentifier,
    criticalExtensions                          CHOICE {
        ueCapabilityInformationSidelink-r16         UECapabilityInformationSidelink-r16-IEs,
        criticalExtensionsFuture                    SEQUENCE {}
    }
}

UECapabilityInformationSidelink-r16-IEs ::= SEQUENCE {
    accessStratumReleaseSidelink-r16            AccessStratumReleaseSidelink-r16,
    pdcp-ParametersSidelink-r16                 PDCP-ParametersSidelink-r16                                             OPTIONAL,
    rlc-ParametersSidelink-r16                  RLC-ParametersSidelink-r16                                              OPTIONAL,
    supportedBandCombinationListSidelinkNR-r16  BandCombinationListSidelinkNR-r16                                       OPTIONAL,
    supportedBandListSidelink-r16               SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxBands)) OF BandSidelinkPC5-r16                    OPTIONAL,
    appliedFreqBandListFilter-r16               FreqBandList                                                            OPTIONAL,
    lateNonCriticalExtension                    OCTET STRING                                                            OPTIONAL,
    nonCriticalExtension                        UECapabilityInformationSidelink-v1700-IEs                               OPTIONAL
}

UECapabilityInformationSidelink-v1700-IEs ::= SEQUENCE {
    mac-ParametersSidelink-r17                    MAC-ParametersSidelink-r17                                            OPTIONAL,
    supportedBandCombinationListSidelinkNR-v1710  BandCombinationListSidelinkNR-v1710                                   OPTIONAL,
    nonCriticalExtension                          UECapabilityInformationSidelink-v1800-IEs                             OPTIONAL
}

UECapabilityInformationSidelink-v1800-IEs ::= SEQUENCE {
    sfn-DFN-OffsetSupported-r18                   ENUMERATED { supported }                                              OPTIONAL,
    posSIB-ForwardingSupported-r18                ENUMERATED { supported }                                              OPTIONAL,
    nonCriticalExtension                          SEQUENCE {}                                                           OPTIONAL
}

MAC-ParametersSidelink-r17 ::= SEQUENCE {
    drx-OnSidelink-r17                          ENUMERATED {supported}                                                  OPTIONAL,
    ...
}

AccessStratumReleaseSidelink-r16 ::= ENUMERATED { rel16, rel17, rel18, spare5, spare4, spare3, spare2, spare1, ... }

PDCP-ParametersSidelink-r16 ::= SEQUENCE {
    outOfOrderDeliverySidelink-r16              ENUMERATED {supported}      OPTIONAL,
    ...,
    [[
    pdcp-DuplicationSRB-sidelink-r18            ENUMERATED {supported}                                                  OPTIONAL,
    pdcp-DuplicationDRB-sidelink-r18            ENUMERATED {supported}                                                  OPTIONAL
    ]]
}

BandCombinationListSidelinkNR-r16 ::= SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxBandComb)) OF BandCombinationParametersSidelinkNR-r16

BandCombinationListSidelinkNR-v1710 ::= SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxBandComb)) OF BandCombinationParametersSidelinkNR-v1710

BandCombinationParametersSidelinkNR-r16 ::= SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxSimultaneousBands)) OF BandParametersSidelink-r16

BandCombinationParametersSidelinkNR-v1710 ::= SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxSimultaneousBands)) OF BandParametersSidelink-v1710

BandParametersSidelink-v1710 ::=    SEQUENCE {
    --32-5a-1
    tx-IUC-Scheme1-Mode2Sidelink-r17    ENUMERATED {supported}                      OPTIONAL,
    --32-5b-1
    tx-IUC-Scheme2-Mode2Sidelink-r17    ENUMERATED {n4, n8, n16}                    OPTIONAL
}

BandSidelinkPC5-r16 ::=           SEQUENCE {
    freqBandSidelink-r16              FreqBandIndicatorNR,
    --15-1
    sl-Reception-r16                  SEQUENCE {
        harq-RxProcessSidelink-r16        ENUMERATED {n16, n24, n32, n64},
        pscch-RxSidelink-r16              ENUMERATED {value1, value2},
        scs-CP-PatternRxSidelink-r16      CHOICE {
            fr1-r16                           SEQUENCE {
                scs-15kHz-r16                     BIT STRING (SIZE (16))                            OPTIONAL,
                scs-30kHz-r16                     BIT STRING (SIZE (16))                            OPTIONAL,
                scs-60kHz-r16                     BIT STRING (SIZE (16))                            OPTIONAL
            },
            fr2-r16                           SEQUENCE {
                scs-60kHz-r16                     BIT STRING (SIZE (16))                            OPTIONAL,
                scs-120kHz-r16                    BIT STRING (SIZE (16))                            OPTIONAL
            }
        }                                                                                           OPTIONAL,
        extendedCP-RxSidelink-r16         ENUMERATED {supported}                                    OPTIONAL
    }                                                                                               OPTIONAL,
    --15-10
    sl-Tx-256QAM-r16                  ENUMERATED {supported}                                        OPTIONAL,
    --15-12
    lowSE-64QAM-MCS-TableSidelink-r16 ENUMERATED {supported}                                        OPTIONAL,
    ...,
    [[
    --15-14
    csi-ReportSidelink-r16                SEQUENCE {
        csi-RS-PortsSidelink-r16              ENUMERATED {p1, p2}
    }                                                                                               OPTIONAL,
    --15-19
    rankTwoReception-r16                  ENUMERATED {supported}                                    OPTIONAL,
    --15-23
    sl-openLoopPC-RSRP-ReportSidelink-r16 ENUMERATED {supported}                                    OPTIONAL,
    --13-1
    sl-Rx-256QAM-r16                      ENUMERATED {supported}                                    OPTIONAL
    ]],
    [[
    --32-5a-2
    rx-IUC-Scheme1-PreferredMode2Sidelink-r17      ENUMERATED {supported}                           OPTIONAL,
    --32-5a-3
    rx-IUC-Scheme1-NonPreferredMode2Sidelink-r17   ENUMERATED {supported}                           OPTIONAL,
    --32-5b-2
    rx-IUC-Scheme2-Mode2Sidelink-r17               ENUMERATED {n5, n15, n25, n32, n35, n45, n50, n64} OPTIONAL,
    --32-6-1
    rx-IUC-Scheme1-SCI-r17                         ENUMERATED {supported}                           OPTIONAL,
    --32-6-2
    rx-IUC-Scheme1-SCI-ExplicitReq-r17             ENUMERATED {supported}                           OPTIONAL,
    --32-7
    scheme2-ConflictDeterminationRSRP-r17          ENUMERATED {supported}                           OPTIONAL
    ]],
    [[
    -- R1 41-1-17: Open loop SL pathloss based power control for SL-PRS and associated PSCCH and SL RSRP report for dedicated resource
    -- pool
    sl-PathlossBasedOLPC-SL-RSRP-Report-r18        ENUMERATED {supported}                           OPTIONAL,
    -- R1 47-k4: Transmitting UE to UE COT sharing information
    sl-UE-COT-Sharing-r18                          ENUMERATED {supported}                           OPTIONAL,
    -- R1 47-m11: PSFCH transmissions in multiple contiguous RB sets
    sl-PSFCH-MultiContiguousRB-r18                 ENUMERATED {supported}                           OPTIONAL,
    -- R1 47-m11a: PSFCH transmissions in multiple non-contiguous RB sets
    sl-PSFCH-MultiNonContiguousRB-r18              ENUMERATED {supported}                           OPTIONAL,
    -- R1 47-v1: NR SL communication with SL CA
    sl-CA-Communication-r18                        SEQUENCE {
        numberOfCarriers-r18                           INTEGER (2..8),
        numberOfPSCCH-DecodeValueZ-r18                 INTEGER (1..2),
        totalBandwidth-r18                             ENUMERATED {mhz20,mhz30,mhz40,mhz50,mhz60,mhz70}
    }                                                                                               OPTIONAL,
    -- R4 45-2: SL reception in intra-carrier guard band
    sl-ReceptionIntraCarrierGuardBand-r18         ENUMERATED {supported}                            OPTIONAL,
    -- R4 45-3: Power class for sidelink unlicensed
    sl-PowerClassUnlicensed-r18                    ENUMERATED {pc5, spare7, spare6, spare5, spare4, spare3, spare2, spare1}    OPTIONAL
    ]]
}

-- TAG-UECAPABILITYINFORMATIONSIDELINK-STOP
-- ASN1STOP

–	UEInformationRequestSidelink
The UEInformationRequestSidelink message is used to transfer UE information in sidelink, e.g. the end-to-end QoS information for L2 U2U Relay operation.
Signalling radio bearer: SL-SRB3
RLC-SAP: AM
Logical channel: SCCH
Direction: L2 U2U Remote UE to L2 U2U Relay UE
UEInformationRequestSidelink message
-- ASN1START
-- TAG-UEINFORMATIONREQUESTSIDELINK-START

UEInformationRequestSidelink-r18 ::=      SEQUENCE {
    rrc-TransactionIdentifier-r18             RRC-TransactionIdentifier,
    criticalExtensions                        CHOICE {
        ueInformationRequestSidelink-r18          UEInformationRequestSidelink-r18-IEs,
        criticalExtensionsFuture                  SEQUENCE {}
    }
}

UEInformationRequestSidelink-r18-IEs ::= SEQUENCE {
    sl-E2E-QoS-InfoListPC5-r18               SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxNrofSLRB-r16)) OF SL-E2E-QoS-InfoPC5-r18 OPTIONAL, -- Need N
    lateNonCriticalExtension                 OCTET STRING                                                             OPTIONAL,
    nonCriticalExtension                     SEQUENCE {}                                                              OPTIONAL
}

SL-E2E-QoS-InfoPC5-r18 ::=               SEQUENCE {
        sl-DestinationIdentityRemoteUE-r18   SL-DestinationIdentity-r16,
        sl-E2E-SLRB-Index-r18                SLRB-PC5-ConfigIndex-r16,
        sl-QoS-InfoList-r18                  SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxNrofSL-QFIsPerDest-r16)) OF SL-QoS-Info-r16
}

-- TAG-UEINFORMATIONREQUESTSIDELINK-STOP
-- ASN1STOP





–	UEInformationResponseSidelink
The UEInformationResponseSidelink message is used to deliver UE information in sidelink, e.g. the split QoS information for L2 U2U Relay operation.
Signalling radio bearer: SL-SRB3
RLC-SAP: AM
Logical channel: SCCH
Direction: L2 U2U Relay UE to L2 U2U Remote UE
UEInformationResponseSidelink message
-- ASN1START
-- TAG-UEINFORMATIONRESPONSESIDELINK-START

UEInformationResponseSidelink-r18 ::=       SEQUENCE {
    rrc-TransactionIdentifier-r18               RRC-TransactionIdentifier,
    criticalExtensions                          CHOICE {
        ueInformationResponseSidelink-r18           UEInformationResponseSidelink-r18-IEs,
        criticalExtensionsFuture                    SEQUENCE {}
    }
}

UEInformationResponseSidelink-r18-IEs ::=  SEQUENCE {
    sl-SplitQoS-InfoListPC5-r18                SEQUENCE (SIZE (1.. maxNrofSL-QFIs-r16)) OF SL-SplitQoS-InfoPC5-r18 OPTIONAL, -- Need N
    lateNonCriticalExtension                   OCTET STRING                                                OPTIONAL,
    nonCriticalExtension                       SEQUENCE {}                                                 OPTIONAL
}

SL-SplitQoS-InfoPC5-r18 ::=                SEQUENCE {
    sl-QoS-FlowIdentity-r18                 SL-QoS-FlowIdentity-r16,
    sl-SplitPacketDelayBudget-r18           INTEGER (0..1023)
}

-- TAG-UEINFORMATIONRESPONSESIDELINK-STOP
-- ASN1STOP




–	UuMessageTransferSidelink
The UuMessageTransferSidelink message is used for the sidelink transfer of Paging message and System Information messages.
Signalling radio bearer: SL-SRB3
RLC-SAP: AM
Logical channel: SCCH
Direction: L2 U2N Relay UE to L2 U2N Remote UE
UuMessageTransferSidelink message
-- ASN1START
-- TAG-UUMESSAGETRANSFERSIDELINK-START

UuMessageTransferSidelink-r17 ::=           SEQUENCE {
    criticalExtensions                          CHOICE {
        uuMessageTransferSidelink-r17               UuMessageTransferSidelink-r17-IEs,
        criticalExtensionsFuture                    SEQUENCE {}
    }
}

UuMessageTransferSidelink-r17-IEs ::=       SEQUENCE {
    sl-PagingDelivery-r17                       OCTET STRING (CONTAINING PagingRecord)                   OPTIONAL,   -- Need N
    sl-SIB1-Delivery-r17                        OCTET STRING (CONTAINING SIB1)                           OPTIONAL,   -- Need N
    sl-SystemInformationDelivery-r17            OCTET STRING (CONTAINING SystemInformation)              OPTIONAL,   -- Need N
    lateNonCriticalExtension                    OCTET STRING                                             OPTIONAL,
    nonCriticalExtension                        UuMessageTransferSidelink-v1800-IEs                      OPTIONAL
}

UuMessageTransferSidelink-v1800-IEs ::=     SEQUENCE {
    sl-PagingDelivery-r18                       OCTET STRING (CONTAINING PagingRecord-v1700)             OPTIONAL,   -- Need N
    nonCriticalExtension                        SEQUENCE {}                                              OPTIONAL
}

-- TAG-UUMESSAGETRANSFERSIDELINK-STOP
-- ASN1STOP



–	End of PC5-RRC-Definitions
-- ASN1START

END

-- ASN1STOP

7	Variables and constants
7.1	Timers
7.1.1	Timers (Informative)


7.1.2	Timer handling
When the UE applies zero value for a timer, the timer shall be started and immediately expire unless explicitly stated otherwise.
7.2	Counters


7.3	Constants


7.4	UE variables
NOTE:	To facilitate the specification of the UE behavioural requirements, UE variables are represented using ASN.1. Unless explicitly specified otherwise, it is however up to UE implementation how to store the variables. The optionality of the IEs in ASN.1 is used only to indicate that the values may not always be available.
–	NR-UE-Variables
This ASN.1 segment is the start of the NR UE variable definitions.
-- ASN1START
-- NR-UE-VARIABLES-START

NR-UE-Variables DEFINITIONS AUTOMATIC TAGS ::=

BEGIN

IMPORTS
    AreaConfiguration-r17,
    ARFCN-ValueNR,
    CellIdentity,
    EUTRA-PhysCellId,
    maxCEFReport-r17,
    maxCellReport,
    MeasId,
    MeasIdToAddModList,
    MeasIdleCarrierEUTRA-r16,
    MeasIdleCarrierNR-r16,
    MeasResultIdleEUTRA-r16,
    MeasResultIdleNR-r16,
    MeasReselectionCarrierNR-r18,
    MeasurementValidityDuration-r18,
    MeasObjectToAddModList,
    MeasConfigAppLayerId-r17,
    MeasConfigAppLayer-r17,
    maxNrofAppLayerMeas-r17,
    AppLayerIdleInactiveConfig-r18,
    PhysCellId,
    RNTI-Value,
    ReportConfigToAddModList,
    RSRP-Range,
    SL-MeasId-r16,
    SL-MeasIdList-r16,
    SL-MeasObjectList-r16,
    SL-ReportConfigList-r16,
    SL-QuantityConfig-r16,
    Tx-PoolMeasList-r16,
    QuantityConfig,
    maxNrofCellMeas,
    maxNrofMeasId,
    maxFreqIdle-r16,
    PhysCellIdUTRA-FDD-r16,
    ValidityAreaList-r16,
    CondReconfigToAddModList-r16,
    ConnEstFailReport-r16,
    LoggingDuration-r16,
    LoggingInterval-r16,
    LogMeasInfoList-r16,
    LogMeasInfo-r16,
    RA-Report-r16,
    RLF-Report-r16,
    TraceReference-r16,
    WLAN-Identifiers-r16,
    WLAN-NameList-r16,
    BT-NameList-r16,
    PLMN-Identity,
    maxNrofRelayMeas-r17,
    maxPLMN,
    RA-ReportList-r16,
    VisitedCellInfoList-r16,
    AbsoluteTimeInfo-r16,
    LoggedEventTriggerConfig-r16,
    LoggedPeriodicalReportConfig-r16,
    Sensor-NameList-r16,
    SL-SourceIdentity-r17,
    SuccessHO-Report-r17,
    PLMN-IdentityList2-r16,
    AreaConfiguration-r16,
    maxNrofSL-MeasId-r16,
    maxNrofFreqSL-r16,
    maxNrofCLI-RSSI-Resources-r16,
    maxNrofCLI-SRS-Resources-r16,
    RSSI-ResourceId-r16,
    SRS-ResourceId,
    VisitedPSCellInfoList-r17,
    SuccessPSCell-Report-r18,
    maxNPN-r16,
    SNPN-ConfigID-List-r18,
    AreaConfiguration-v1800,
    NID-r16,
    SK-CounterConfig-r18,
    ReferenceConfiguration-r18,
    maxNrofLTM-Configs-plus1-r18,
    maxSecurityCellSet-r18

FROM NR-RRC-Definitions;

-- NR-UE-VARIABLES-STOP
-- ASN1STOP

–	VarAppLayerIdleConfig
The UE variable VarAppLayerIdleConfig includes the parameters of the application layer measurements stored in the UE while in RRC_IDLE.
VarAppLayerIdleConfig UE variable
-- ASN1START
-- TAG-VARAPPLAYERIDLECONFIG-START

VarAppLayerIdleConfig-r18 ::=     SEQUENCE {
    appLayerIdleConfigList-r18        SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxNrofAppLayerMeas-r17)) OF VarAppLayerIdle-r18
}

VarAppLayerIdle-r18 ::=           SEQUENCE {
    measConfigAppLayerId-r18          MeasConfigAppLayerId-r17,
    serviceType-r18                   ENUMERATED {streaming, mtsi, vr, spare5, spare4, spare3, spare2, spare1},
    appLayerIdleInactiveConfig-r18    AppLayerIdleInactiveConfig-r18,
    appLayerMeasPriority-r18          INTEGER (1..16)                                                               OPTIONAL
}

-- TAG-VARAPPLAYERIDLECONFIG-STOP
-- ASN1STOP

–	VarAppLayerPLMN-ListConfig
The UE variable VarAppLayerPLMN-ListConfig includes the PLMNs to which application layer measurement reports and application layer measurement configurations are allowed to be sent.
VarAppLayerPLMN-ListConfig UE variable
-- ASN1START
-- TAG-VARAPPLAYERPLMN-LISTCONFIG-START

VarAppLayerPLMN-ListConfig-r18 ::=     SEQUENCE {
    plmnConfigList-r18                     SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxNrofAppLayerMeas-r17)) OF VarAppLayerPLMN-List-r18
}

VarAppLayerPLMN-List-r18 ::=           SEQUENCE {
    measConfigAppLayerId-r18               MeasConfigAppLayerId-r17,
    plmn-IdentityList-r18                  PLMN-IdentityList2-r16
}

-- TAG-VARAPPLAYERPLMN-LISTCONFIG-STOP
-- ASN1STOP

–	VarConditionalReconfig
The UE variable VarConditionalReconfig includes the accumulated configuration of the conditional handover, conditional PSCell addition or conditional PSCell change configurations including the pointers to conditional handover, conditional PSCell addition, conditional PSCell change, or subsequent CPAC execution condition (associated measId(s)), the stored target candidate SpCell RRCReconfiguration, the stored reference configuration, and the stored SK-Counter configuration.
VarConditionalReconfig UE variable
-- ASN1START
-- TAG-VARCONDITIONALRECONFIG-START

VarConditionalReconfig ::=         SEQUENCE {
    condReconfigList                   CondReconfigToAddModList-r16                                           OPTIONAL,
    scpac-ReferenceConfiguration-r18   ReferenceConfiguration-r18                                             OPTIONAL,
    sk-CounterConfiguration-r18        SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxSecurityCellSet-r18)) OF SK-CounterConfig-r18    OPTIONAL
}

-- TAG-VARCONDITIONALRECONFIG-STOP
-- ASN1STOP

–	VarConnEstFailReport
The UE variable VarConnEstFailReport includes the connection establishment failure and/or connection resume failure information.
VarConnEstFailReport UE variable
-- ASN1START
-- TAG-VARCONNESTFAILREPORT-START

VarConnEstFailReport-r16 ::= SEQUENCE {
    connEstFailReport-r16        ConnEstFailReport-r16,
    networkIdentity-r18          CHOICE {
        plmn-Identity-r18            PLMN-Identity,
        snpn-Identity-r18            SNPN-Identity-r18
    }
}

SNPN-Identity-r18 ::=        SEQUENCE {
    plmn-Identity-r18            PLMN-Identity,
    nid-r18                      NID-r16
}
-- TAG-VARCONNESTFAILREPORT-STOP
-- ASN1STOP

–	VarConnEstFailReportList
The UE variable VarConnEstFailReportList includes a list of the connection establishment failure and/or connection resume failure information.
VarConnEstFailReportList UE variable
-- ASN1START
-- TAG-VARCONNESTFAILREPORTLIST-START

VarConnEstFailReportList-r17 ::= SEQUENCE {
    connEstFailReportList-r17        SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxCEFReport-r17)) OF VarConnEstFailReport-r16
}

-- TAG-VARCONNESTFAILREPORTLIST-STOP
-- ASN1STOP

–	VarLogMeasConfig
The UE variable VarLogMeasConfig includes the configuration of the logging of measurements to be performed by the UE while in RRC_IDLE, RRC_INACTIVE, covering intra-frequency, inter-frequency and inter-RAT mobility related measurements. The UE performs logging of measurements only while in RRC_IDLE and RRC_INACTIVE.
VarLogMeasConfig UE variable
-- ASN1START
-- TAG-VARLOGMEASCONFIG-START

VarLogMeasConfig-r16 ::=     SEQUENCE {
    areaConfiguration-r16        AreaConfiguration-r16        OPTIONAL,
    bt-NameList-r16              BT-NameList-r16              OPTIONAL,
    wlan-NameList-r16            WLAN-NameList-r16            OPTIONAL,
    sensor-NameList-r16          Sensor-NameList-r16          OPTIONAL,
    loggingDuration-r16          LoggingDuration-r16,
    reportType                   CHOICE {
        periodical                   LoggedPeriodicalReportConfig-r16,
        eventTriggered               LoggedEventTriggerConfig-r16
    },
    earlyMeasIndication-r17      ENUMERATED {true}            OPTIONAL,
    areaConfiguration-r17        AreaConfiguration-r17        OPTIONAL,
    areaConfiguration-v1800      AreaConfiguration-v1800      OPTIONAL
}
-- TAG-VARLOGMEASCONFIG-STOP
-- ASN1STOP

–	VarLogMeasReport
The UE variable VarLogMeasReport includes the logged measurements information.
VarLogMeasReport UE variable
-- ASN1START
-- TAG-VARLOGMEASREPORT-START

VarLogMeasReport-r16 ::=     SEQUENCE {
    absoluteTimeInfo-r16         AbsoluteTimeInfo-r16,
    traceReference-r16           TraceReference-r16,
    traceRecordingSessionRef-r16 OCTET STRING (SIZE (2)),
    tce-Id-r16                   OCTET STRING (SIZE (1)),
    logMeasInfoList-r16          LogMeasInfoList-r16,
    sigLoggedMeasType-r17        ENUMERATED {true},
    identityList-r18             CHOICE {
        plmn-IdentityList-r18        PLMN-IdentityList2-r16,
        snpn-ConfigID-List-r18       SNPN-ConfigID-List-r18
    }
}

-- TAG-VARLOGMEASREPORT-STOP
-- ASN1STOP

–	VarLTM-ServingCellNoResetID
The IE VarLTM-ServingCellNoResetID is used to store the ID associated with the serving cell based on which the UE determines whether a L2 reset is needed or not upon an LTM cell switch procedure.
VarLTM-ServingCellNoResetID UE variable
-- ASN1START
-- TAG-VARLTM-SERVINGCELLNORESETID-START

VarLTM-ServingCellNoResetID-r18 ::=     SEQUENCE {
    ltm-ServingCellNoResetID-r18            INTEGER (1..maxNrofLTM-Configs-plus1-r18)                         OPTIONAL
}

-- TAG-VARLTM-SERVINGCELLNORESETID-STOP
-- ASN1STOP

–	VarLTM-ServingCellUE-MeasuredTA-ID
The IE VarLTM-ServingCellUE-MeasuredTA-ID is used to store the ID associated with the serving cell based on which the UE determines whether UE-based TA measurements are needed or not.
VarLTM-ServingCellUE-MeasuredTA-ID UE variable
-- ASN1START
-- TAG-VARLTM-SERVINGCELLUE-MEASUREDTA-ID-START

VarLTM-ServingCellUE-MeasuredTA-ID-r18 ::=    SEQUENCE {
    ltm-ServingCellUE-MeasuredTA-ID-r18           INTEGER (1..maxNrofLTM-Configs-plus1-r18)                    OPTIONAL
}

-- TAG-VARLTM-SERVINGCELLUE-MEASUREDTA-ID-STOP
-- ASN1STOP

–	VarMeasConfig
The UE variable VarMeasConfig includes the accumulated configuration of the measurements to be performed by the UE, covering intra-frequency, inter-frequency and inter-RAT mobility related measurements.
VarMeasConfig UE variable
-- ASN1START
-- TAG-VARMEASCONFIG-START

VarMeasConfig ::=                   SEQUENCE {
    -- Measurement identities
    measIdList                          MeasIdToAddModList                  OPTIONAL,
    -- Measurement objects
    measObjectList                      MeasObjectToAddModList              OPTIONAL,
    -- Reporting configurations
    reportConfigList                    ReportConfigToAddModList            OPTIONAL,
    -- Other parameters
    quantityConfig                      QuantityConfig                      OPTIONAL,
    s-MeasureConfig                         CHOICE {
        ssb-RSRP                                RSRP-Range,
        csi-RSRP                                RSRP-Range
    }                                                                       OPTIONAL
}

-- TAG-VARMEASCONFIG-STOP
-- ASN1STOP

–	VarMeasConfigSL
The UE variable VarMeasConfigSL includes the accumulated configuration of the NR sidelink measurements to be performed by the UE of unicast destination.
VarMeasConfigSL UE variable
-- ASN1START
-- TAG-VARMEASCONFIGSL-START

VarMeasConfigSL-r16 ::=                        SEQUENCE {
    -- NR sidelink measurement identities
    sl-MeasIdList-r16                              SL-MeasIdList-r16                          OPTIONAL,
    -- NR sidelink measurement objects
    sl-MeasObjectList-r16                          SL-MeasObjectList-r16                      OPTIONAL,
    -- NR sidelink reporting configurations
    sl-ReportConfigList-r16                        SL-ReportConfigList-r16                    OPTIONAL,
    -- Other parameters
    sl-QuantityConfig-r16                          SL-QuantityConfig-r16                      OPTIONAL
}

-- TAG-VARMEASCONFIGSL-STOP
-- ASN1STOP

–	VarMeasIdleConfig
The UE variable VarMeasIdleConfig includes the configuration of the measurements to be performed by the UE while in RRC_IDLE or RRC_INACTIVE for NR inter-frequency and inter-RAT (i.e. EUTRA) measurements.
VarMeasIdleConfig UE variable
-- ASN1START
-- TAG-VARMEASIDLECONFIG-START

VarMeasIdleConfig-r16 ::=     SEQUENCE {
    measIdleCarrierListNR-r16     SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxFreqIdle-r16)) OF MeasIdleCarrierNR-r16                  OPTIONAL,
    measIdleCarrierListEUTRA-r16  SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxFreqIdle-r16)) OF MeasIdleCarrierEUTRA-r16               OPTIONAL,
    measIdleDuration-r16          ENUMERATED {sec10, sec30, sec60, sec120, sec180, sec240, sec300, spare},
    validityAreaList-r16          ValidityAreaList-r16                                                           OPTIONAL
}

VarEnhMeasIdleConfig-r18 ::=  SEQUENCE {
    measIdleValidityDuration-r18  MeasurementValidityDuration-r18                                                OPTIONAL
}

-- TAG-VARMEASIDLECONFIG-STOP
-- ASN1STOP

–	VarMeasIdleReport
The UE variable VarMeasIdleReport includes the logged measurements information.
VarMeasIdleReport UE variable
-- ASN1START
-- TAG-VARMEASIDLEREPORT-START

VarMeasIdleReport-r16 ::=    SEQUENCE {
    measReportIdleNR-r16         MeasResultIdleNR-r16                     OPTIONAL,
    measReportIdleEUTRA-r16      MeasResultIdleEUTRA-r16                  OPTIONAL
}

-- TAG-VARMEASIDLEREPORT-STOP
-- ASN1STOP

–	VarMeasReportList
The UE variable VarMeasReportList includes information about the measurements for which the triggering conditions have been met.
VarMeasReportList UE variable
-- ASN1START
-- TAG-VARMEASREPORTLIST-START

VarMeasReportList ::=               SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxNrofMeasId)) OF VarMeasReport

VarMeasReport ::=                   SEQUENCE {
    -- List of measurement that have been triggered
    measId                              MeasId,
    cellsTriggeredList                  CellsTriggeredList                                        OPTIONAL,
    numberOfReportsSent                 INTEGER,
    cli-TriggeredList-r16               CLI-TriggeredList-r16                                     OPTIONAL,
    tx-PoolMeasToAddModListNR-r16       Tx-PoolMeasList-r16                                       OPTIONAL,
    relaysTriggeredList-r17             RelaysTriggeredList-r17                                   OPTIONAL,
    cellsMetLeavingCond-r18             SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxCellReport)) OF PhysCellId          OPTIONAL,
    reportedBestNeighbourCell-r18       SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..2)) OF PhysCellId                      OPTIONAL
}

CellsTriggeredList ::=              SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxNrofCellMeas)) OF CHOICE {
    physCellId                          PhysCellId,
    physCellIdEUTRA                     EUTRA-PhysCellId,
    physCellIdUTRA-FDD-r16              PhysCellIdUTRA-FDD-r16
    }

CLI-TriggeredList-r16 ::=           CHOICE {
    srs-RSRP-TriggeredList-r16          SRS-RSRP-TriggeredList-r16,
    cli-RSSI-TriggeredList-r16          CLI-RSSI-TriggeredList-r16
    }

SRS-RSRP-TriggeredList-r16 ::=      SEQUENCE (SIZE (1.. maxNrofCLI-SRS-Resources-r16)) OF SRS-ResourceId

CLI-RSSI-TriggeredList-r16 ::=      SEQUENCE (SIZE (1.. maxNrofCLI-RSSI-Resources-r16)) OF RSSI-ResourceId-r16

RelaysTriggeredList-r17 ::=         SEQUENCE (SIZE (1.. maxNrofRelayMeas-r17)) OF SL-SourceIdentity-r17

-- TAG-VARMEASREPORTLIST-STOP
-- ASN1STOP

–	VarMeasReportListSL
The UE variable VarMeasReportListSL includes information about the NR sidelink measurements for which the triggering conditions have been met.
VarMeasReportListSL UE variable
-- ASN1START
-- TAG-VARMEASREPORTLISTSL-START

VarMeasReportListSL-r16 ::=               SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxNrofSL-MeasId-r16)) OF VarMeasReportSL-r16

VarMeasReportSL-r16 ::=                   SEQUENCE {
    -- List of NR sidelink measurement that have been triggered
    sl-MeasId-r16                             SL-MeasId-r16,
    sl-FrequencyTriggeredList-r16             SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxNrofFreqSL-r16)) OF ARFCN-ValueNR              OPTIONAL,
    sl-NumberOfReportsSent-r16                INTEGER
}

-- TAG-VARMEASREPORTLISTSL-STOP
-- ASN1STOP

–	VarMeasReselectionConfig
The UE variable VarMeasReselectionConfig includes the configuration for reporting the NR inter-frequency and inter-RAT (i.e. EUTRA) reselection measurements while in RRC_IDLE or RRC_INACTIVE for.
VarMeasReselectionConfig UE variable
-- ASN1START
-- TAG-VARMEASRESELECTIONCONFIG-START

VarMeasReselectionConfig-r18 ::=     SEQUENCE {
    measReselectionCarrierListNR-r18     SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxFreqIdle-r16)) OF MeasReselectionCarrierNR-r18    OPTIONAL,
    measReselectionValidityDuration-r18  MeasurementValidityDuration-r18                                         OPTIONAL
}

-- TAG-VARMEASRESELECTIONCONFIG-STOP
-- ASN1STOP

–	VarMobilityHistoryReport
The UE variable VarMobilityHistoryReport includes the mobility history information.
VarMobilityHistoryReport UE variable
-- ASN1START
-- TAG-VARMOBILITYHISTORYREPORT-START

VarMobilityHistoryReport-r16 ::= VisitedCellInfoList-r16

VarMobilityHistoryReport-r17 ::= SEQUENCE {
    visitedCellInfoList-r16          VisitedCellInfoList-r16,
    visitedPSCellInfoList-r17        VisitedPSCellInfoList-r17         OPTIONAL
}

-- TAG-VARMOBILITYHISTORYREPORT-STOP
-- ASN1STOP

–	VarPendingRNA-Update
The UE variable VarPendingRNA-Update indicates whether there is a pending RNA update procedure or not. The setting of this BOOLEAN variable to true means that there is a pending RNA Update procedure.
VarPendingRNA-Update UE variable
-- ASN1START
-- TAG-VARPENDINGRNA-UPDATE-START

VarPendingRNA-Update ::=                    SEQUENCE {
    pendingRNA-Update                   BOOLEAN                             OPTIONAL
}

-- TAG-VARPENDINGRNA-UPDATE-STOP
-- ASN1STOP

–	VarRA-Report
The UE variable VarRA-Report includes the random-access related information.
VarRA-Report UE variable
-- ASN1START
-- TAG-VARRA-REPORT-START

VarRA-Report-r16 ::=      SEQUENCE {
    ra-ReportList-r16         RA-ReportList-r16,
    identityList-r18          CHOICE {
        plmn-IdentityList-r18     PLMN-IdentityList2-r16,
        snpn-IdentityList-r18     SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxNPN-r16)) OF SNPN-Identity-r18
    }
}

-- TAG-VARRA-REPORT-STOP
-- ASN1STOP

–	VarResumeMAC-Input
The UE variable VarResumeMAC-Input specifies the input used to generate the resumeMAC-I during RRC Connection Resume procedure.
VarResumeMAC-Input UE variable
-- ASN1START
-- TAG-VARRESUMEMAC-INPUT-START

VarResumeMAC-Input  ::=     SEQUENCE {
    sourcePhysCellId                        PhysCellId,
    targetCellIdentity                      CellIdentity,
    source-c-RNTI                           RNTI-Value
}

-- TAG-VARRESUMEMAC-INPUT-STOP
-- ASN1STOP



–	VarRLF-Report
The UE variable VarRLF-Report includes the radio link failure information or handover failure information.
VarRLF-Report UE variable
-- ASN1START
-- TAG-VARRLF-REPORT-START

VarRLF-Report-r16 ::=    SEQUENCE {
    rlf-Report-r16           RLF-Report-r16,
    identityList-r18         CHOICE {
        plmn-IdentityList-r18    PLMN-IdentityList2-r16,
        snpn-IdentityList-r18    SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxNPN-r16)) OF SNPN-Identity-r18
    }
}

-- TAG-VARRLF-REPORT-STOP
-- ASN1STOP

–	VarServingSecurityCellSetID
The UE variable VarServingSecurityCellSetID includes the security cell set ID of serving PSCell.
VarServingSecurityCellSetID UE variable
-- ASN1START
-- TAG-VARSERVINGSECURITYCELLSETID-START

VarServingSecurityCellSetID ::=       SEQUENCE {
    servingSecurityCellSetId-r18          INTEGER (1.. maxSecurityCellSet-r18)
}

-- TAG-VARSERVINGSECURITYCELLSETID-STOP
-- ASN1STOP

–	VarShortMAC-Input
The UE variable VarShortMAC-Input specifies the input used to generate the shortMAC-I during RRC Connection Reestablishment procedure.
VarShortMAC-Input UE variable
-- ASN1START
-- TAG-VARSHORTMAC-INPUT-START

VarShortMAC-Input   ::=                 SEQUENCE {
    sourcePhysCellId                        PhysCellId,
    targetCellIdentity                      CellIdentity,
    source-c-RNTI                           RNTI-Value
}

-- TAG-VARSHORTMAC-INPUT-STOP
-- ASN1STOP



–	VarSuccessHO-Report
The UE variable VarSuccessHO-Report includes the successful handover information.
VarSuccessHO-Report UE variable
-- ASN1START
-- TAG-VARSUCCESSHO-Report-START

VarSuccessHO-Report-r17 ::=     SEQUENCE {
    successHO-Report-r17            SuccessHO-Report-r17,
    identityList-r18                CHOICE {
        plmn-IdentityList-r18           PLMN-IdentityList2-r16,
        snpn-IdentityList-r18           SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxNPN-r16)) OF SNPN-Identity-r18
    }
}
-- TAG-VARSUCCESSHO-Report-STOP
-- ASN1STOP

–	VarSuccessPSCell-Report
The UE variable VarSuccessPSCell-Report includes the successful PSCell change or addition information.
VarSuccessPSCell-Report UE variable
-- ASN1START
-- TAG-VARSUCCESSPSCELL-Report-START

VarSuccessPSCell-Report-r18 ::=     SEQUENCE {
    successPSCell-Report-r18        SuccessPSCell-Report-r18,
    identityList-r18                CHOICE {
        plmn-IdentityList-r18           PLMN-IdentityList2-r16,
        snpn-IdentityList-r18           SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxNPN-r16)) OF SNPN-Identity-r18
    }
}

-- TAG-VARSUCCESSPSCELL-Report-STOP
-- ASN1STOP

–	VarTSS-Info
The UE variable VarTSS-Info includes information about the current value of eventID-TSS and the current value of the global gNB Identity.
VarTSS-Info UE variable
-- ASN1START
-- TAG-VARTSS-INFO-START

VarTSS-Info-r18 ::= SEQUENCE {
    storedEventID-r18       INTEGER (0..63),
    storedGlobalGnbID-r18   SEQUENCE {
        plmn-Identity-r18       PLMN-Identity,
        gnb-ID-r18              BIT STRING (SIZE (22..32))
    }
}

-- TAG-VARTSS-INFO-STOP
-- ASN1STOP

–	End of NR-UE-Variables
-- ASN1START

END

-- ASN1STOP

8	Protocol data unit abstract syntax
8.1	General
The RRC PDU contents in clause 6 and clause 10 are described using abstract syntax notation one (ASN.1) as specified in ITU-T Rec. X.680 [6] and X.681 [7]. Transfer syntax for RRC PDUs is derived from their ASN.1 definitions by use of Packed Encoding Rules, unaligned as specified in ITU-T Rec. X.691 [8].
The following encoding rules apply in addition to what has been specified in X.691:
-	When a bit string value is placed in a bit-field as specified in 15.6 to 15.11 in X.691, the leading bit of the bit string value shall be placed in the leading bit of the bit-field, and the trailing bit of the bit string value shall be placed in the trailing bit of the bit-field;
NOTE:	The terms 'leading bit' and 'trailing bit' are defined in ITU-T Rec. X.680. When using the 'bstring' notation, the leading bit of the bit string value is on the left, and the trailing bit of the bit string value is on the right.
-	When decoding types constrained with the ASN.1 Contents Constraint ("CONTAINING"), automatic decoding of the contained type should not be performed because errors in the decoding of the contained type should not cause the decoding of the entire RRC message PDU to fail. It is recommended that the decoder first decodes the outer PDU type that contains the OCTET STRING or BIT STRING with the Contents Constraint, and then decodes the contained type that is nested within the OCTET STRING or BIT STRING as a separate step;
-	When decoding a) RRC message PDUs, b) BIT STRING constrained with a Contents Constraint, or c) OCTET STRING constrained with a Contents Constraint, PER decoders are required to never report an error if there are extraneous zero or non-zero bits at the end of the encoded RRC message PDU, BIT STRING or OCTET STRING.
8.2	Structure of encoded RRC messages
An RRC PDU, which is the bit string that is exchanged between peer entities/across the radio interface contains the basic production as defined in X.691.
RRC PDUs shall be mapped to and from PDCP SDUs (in case of DCCH) or RLC SDUs (in case of PCCH, BCCH or CCCH) upon transmission and reception as follows:
-	when delivering an RRC PDU as an PDCP SDU to the PDCP layer for transmission, the first bit of the RRC PDU shall be represented as the first bit in the PDCP SDU and onwards; and
-	when delivering an RRC PDU as an RLC SDU to the RLC layer for transmission, the first bit of the RRC PDU shall be represented as the first bit in the RLC SDU and onwards; and
-	upon reception of an PDCP SDU from the PDCP layer, the first bit of the PDCP SDU shall represent the first bit of the RRC PDU and onwards; and
-	upon reception of an RLC SDU from the RLC layer, the first bit of the RLC SDU shall represent the first bit of the RRC PDU and onwards.
8.3	Basic production
The 'basic production' is obtained by applying UNALIGNED PER to the abstract syntax value (the ASN.1 description) as specified in X.691. It always contains a multiple of 8 bits.
8.4	Extension
The following rules apply with respect to the use of protocol extensions:
-	A transmitter compliant with this version of the specification shall, unless explicitly indicated otherwise on a PDU type basis, set the extension part empty. Transmitters compliant with a later version may send non-empty extensions;
-	A transmitter compliant with this version of the specification shall set spare bits to zero.
8.5	Padding
If the encoded RRC message does not fill a transport block, the RRC layer shall add padding bits. This applies to PCCH and BCCH.
Padding bits shall be set to 0 and the number of padding bits is a multiple of 8.

Figure 8.5-1: RRC level padding
9	Specified and default radio configurations
Specified and default configurations are configurations of which the details are specified in the standard. Specified configurations are fixed while default configurations can be modified using dedicated signalling. The default value for the parameters not listed in following clauses shall be set such as the corresponding features are not configured, i.e. release or false unless explicitly stated otherwise.
NOTE:	The UE applies the default values specified in the field description of ASN.1 parameters only when the parent IE is present. Hence, the UE does not apply all default values in field descriptions when it applies the "default radio configuration" in accordance with this clause.
9.1	Specified configurations
9.1.1	Logical channel configurations
9.1.1.1	BCCH configuration
Parameters


NOTE:	RRC will perform padding, if required due to the granularity of the TF signalling, as defined in 8.5.
9.1.1.2	CCCH configuration
Parameters


9.1.1.3	PCCH configuration
Parameters


NOTE:	RRC will perform padding, if required due to the granularity of the TF signalling, as defined in 8.5.

9.1.1.4	SCCH configuration
Parameters that are specified for unicast of NR sidelink communication, which is used for the sidelink signalling radio bearer of PC5-RRC message. The SL-SRB using this SCCH configuration is named as SL-SRB3.


Parameters that are specified of NR sidelink communication, which is used for the sidelink signalling radio bearer of unprotected PC5-S message (e.g. Direct Link Establishment Request, TS 24.587 [57] or Prose Direct Link Establishment Request, TS 24.554 [72]). The SL-SRB using this SCCH configuration is named as SL-SRB0.


Parameters that are specified for unicast of NR sidelink communication, which is used for the sidelink signalling radio bearer of PC5-S message establishing PC5-S security (e.g. Direct Link Security Mode Command and Direct Link Security Mode Complete, TS 24.587 [57] or ProSe Direct Link Security Mode Command and ProSe Direct Link Security Mode Complete, TS 24.554 [72]). The SL-SRB using this SCCH configuration is named as SL-SRB1.


Parameters that are specified for unicast of NR sidelink communication, which is used for the sidelink signalling radio bearer of protected PC5-S message except Direct Link Security Mode Complete, TS 24.587 [57] or Prose Direct Link Security Mode Complete, TS 24.554 [72]. The SL-SRB using this SCCH configuration is named as SL-SRB2.


Parameters that are specified for NR sidelink discovery, which is used for the sidelink signalling radio bearer of NR sidelink discovery messages (e.g., Announcement message, Solicitation message and Response message, see TS 23.304 [65]). The SL-SRB using this SCCH configuration is named as SL-SRB4.


Parameters that are specified for NR sidelink L2 U2N Relay operations, which is used for the PC5 Relay RLC channel for Remote UE's SRB0 message transmission/reception. The PC5 Relay RLC channel using this configuration is named as SL-RLC0.


Parameters that are specified for NR sidelink L2 U2U Relay operations, which is used for the PC5 Relay RLC channel for U2U Remote UE's SL-SRB0/1/2/3 message transmission/reception with the peer U2U Remote UE. The PC5 Relay RLC channel using this configuration is named as SL-U2U-RLC.


9.1.1.5	STCH configuration
Parameters that are specified for NR sidelink communication, which is used for the sidelink data radio bearer.


9.1.1.6	MCCH configuration
Parameters that are specified for MCCH.


9.1.1.7	MTCH configuration for MBS broadcast
Parameters that are specified for MBS broadcast MTCH.


9.1.2	Void
9.2	Default radio configurations
The following clauses only list default values for REL-15 parameters included in protocol version v15.3.0. For all fields introduced in a later protocol version, the default value is "released" or "false" unless explicitly specified otherwise. If the UE is to apply default configuration while it is configured with some critically extended fields, the UE shall apply the original version of those fields with only default values.
NOTE 1:	In general, the signalling should preferably support a "release" option for fields introduced after v15.3.0. The "value not applicable" should be used restrictively, mainly limited to for fields which value is relevant only if another field is set to a value other than its default.
NOTE 2:	For parameters in ServingCellConfig, the default values are specified in the corresponding specification.
9.2.1	Default SRB configurations
Parameters


9.2.2	Default MAC Cell Group configuration
Parameters


9.2.3	Default values timers and constants
Parameters


9.2.4	Default PC5 Relay RLC Channel
Parameters of the PC5 Relay RLC Channel used for Remote UE's SRB1 RRC message transmission and reception. The PC5 Relay RLC Channel using this configuration is named as SL-RLC1.


9.2.5	Default SRAP configurations
Parameters that are used for reception of Remote UE's RRCResume, RRCRelease in response to an RRCResumeRequest/RRCResumeRequest1 and RRCReestablishment messages.


9.3	Sidelink pre-configured parameters
This ASN.1 segment is the start of the NR definitions of pre-configured sidelink parameters.
–	NR-Sidelink-Preconf
-- ASN1START
-- TAG-NR-SIDELINK-PRECONF-DEFINITIONS-START

NR-Sidelink-Preconf DEFINITIONS AUTOMATIC TAGS ::=

BEGIN

IMPORTS
    SL-RelayUE-ConfigU2U-r18,
    SL-RemoteUE-ConfigU2U-r18,
    SL-RelayUE-ConfigU2U-v1840,
    SL-RemoteUE-ConfigU2U-v1830,
    SL-RemoteUE-Config-r17,
    SL-DRX-ConfigGC-BC-r17,
    SL-Freq-Id-r16,
    maxNrofFreqSL-1-r18,
    SL-FreqConfigCommon-r16,
    SL-RadioBearerConfig-r16,
    SL-RLC-BearerConfig-r16,
    SL-EUTRA-AnchorCarrierFreqList-r16,
    SL-NR-AnchorCarrierFreqList-r16,
    SL-MeasConfigCommon-r16,
    SL-UE-SelectedConfig-r16,
    TDD-UL-DL-ConfigCommon,
    maxNrofFreqSL-r16,
    maxNrofSLRB-r16,
    maxSL-LCID-r16,
    SL-FreqConfigCommonExt-v16k0
FROM NR-RRC-Definitions;

-- TAG-NR-SIDELINK-PRECONF-DEFINITIONS-STOP
-- ASN1STOP

–	SL-PreconfigurationNR
The IE SL-PreconfigurationNR includes the sidelink pre-configured parameters used for NR sidelink communication. Need codes or conditions specified for subfields in SL-PreconfigurationNR do not apply.
SL-PreconfigurationNR information elements
-- ASN1START
-- TAG-SL-PRECONFIGURATIONNR-START

SL-PreconfigurationNR-r16 ::=             SEQUENCE {
    sidelinkPreconfigNR-r16                   SidelinkPreconfigNR-r16,
    ...,
    [[
    sidelinkPreconfigNR-v16k0                   SidelinkPreconfigNR-v16k0
    ]]
}

SidelinkPreconfigNR-r16 ::=                 SEQUENCE {
    sl-PreconfigFreqInfoList-r16                SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxNrofFreqSL-r16)) OF SL-FreqConfigCommon-r16     OPTIONAL,
    sl-PreconfigNR-AnchorCarrierFreqList-r16    SL-NR-AnchorCarrierFreqList-r16                                       OPTIONAL,
    sl-PreconfigEUTRA-AnchorCarrierFreqList-r16 SL-EUTRA-AnchorCarrierFreqList-r16                                    OPTIONAL,
    sl-RadioBearerPreConfigList-r16             SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxNrofSLRB-r16)) OF SL-RadioBearerConfig-r16      OPTIONAL,
    sl-RLC-BearerPreConfigList-r16              SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxSL-LCID-r16)) OF SL-RLC-BearerConfig-r16        OPTIONAL,
    sl-MeasPreConfig-r16                        SL-MeasConfigCommon-r16                                               OPTIONAL,
    sl-OffsetDFN-r16                            INTEGER (1..1000)                                                     OPTIONAL,
    t400-r16                                    ENUMERATED{ms100, ms200, ms300, ms400, ms600, ms1000, ms1500, ms2000} OPTIONAL,
    sl-MaxNumConsecutiveDTX-r16                 ENUMERATED {n1, n2, n3, n4, n6, n8, n16, n32}                         OPTIONAL,
    sl-SSB-PriorityNR-r16                       INTEGER (1..8)                                                        OPTIONAL,
    sl-PreconfigGeneral-r16                     SL-PreconfigGeneral-r16                                               OPTIONAL,
    sl-UE-SelectedPreConfig-r16                 SL-UE-SelectedConfig-r16                                              OPTIONAL,
    sl-CSI-Acquisition-r16                      ENUMERATED {enabled}                                                  OPTIONAL,
    sl-RoHC-Profiles-r16                        SL-RoHC-Profiles-r16                                                  OPTIONAL,
    sl-MaxCID-r16                               INTEGER (1..16383)                                                    DEFAULT 15,
    ...,
    [[
    sl-DRX-PreConfigGC-BC-r17                   SL-DRX-ConfigGC-BC-r17                                                OPTIONAL,
    sl-TxProfileList-r17                        SL-TxProfileList-r17                                                  OPTIONAL,
    sl-PreconfigDiscConfig-r17                  SL-RemoteUE-Config-r17                                                OPTIONAL
    ]],
    [[
    sl-PreconfigFreqInfoListSizeExt-v1800       SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxNrofFreqSL-1-r18)) OF SL-FreqConfigCommon-r16   OPTIONAL,
    sl-RLC-BearerConfigListSizeExt-v1800        SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxSL-LCID-r16)) OF SL-RLC-BearerConfig-r16        OPTIONAL,
    sl-SyncFreqList-r18                         SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxNrofFreqSL-r16)) OF SL-Freq-Id-r16              OPTIONAL,
    sl-SyncTxMultiFreq-r18                      ENUMERATED {true}                                                     OPTIONAL,
    sl-PreconfigDiscConfig-v1800                SL-PreconfigDiscConfig-v1800                                          OPTIONAL,
    sl-PosPreconfigFreqInfoList-r18             SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxNrofFreqSL-r16)) OF SL-FreqConfigCommon-r16     OPTIONAL
    ]],
    [[
    t400-U2U-r18                                ENUMERATED {ms200, ms400, ms600, ms800, ms1200, ms2000, ms3000, ms4000} OPTIONAL
    ]],
    [[
    sl-PreconfigDiscConfig-v1840                SL-PreconfigDiscConfig-v1840                                          OPTIONAL
    ]]
}

SidelinkPreconfigNR-v16k0 ::=           SEQUENCE {
    sl-PreconfigFreqInfoListExt-v16k0       SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxNrofFreqSL-r16)) OF SL-FreqConfigCommonExt-v16k0    OPTIONAL
}

SL-TxProfileList-r17 ::=                    SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..256)) OF SL-TxProfile-r17

SL-TxProfile-r17 ::=                        ENUMERATED {drx-Compatible, drx-Incompatible, spare6, spare5, spare4, spare3,spare2, spare1}

SL-PreconfigGeneral-r16 ::=                 SEQUENCE {
    sl-TDD-Configuration-r16                    TDD-UL-DL-ConfigCommon                                                OPTIONAL,
    reservedBits-r16                            BIT STRING (SIZE (2))                                                 OPTIONAL,
    ...
}

SL-RoHC-Profiles-r16 ::=              SEQUENCE {
    profile0x0001-r16                     BOOLEAN,
    profile0x0002-r16                     BOOLEAN,
    profile0x0003-r16                     BOOLEAN,
    profile0x0004-r16                     BOOLEAN,
    profile0x0006-r16                     BOOLEAN,
    profile0x0101-r16                     BOOLEAN,
    profile0x0102-r16                     BOOLEAN,
    profile0x0103-r16                     BOOLEAN,
    profile0x0104-r16                     BOOLEAN
}

SL-PreconfigDiscConfig-v1800 ::=      SEQUENCE {
    sl-RelayUE-PreconfigU2U-r18           SL-RelayUE-ConfigU2U-r18,
    sl-RemoteUE-PreconfigU2U-r18          SL-RemoteUE-ConfigU2U-r18
}

SL-PreconfigDiscConfig-v1840 ::=      SEQUENCE {
    sl-RelayUE-PreconfigU2U-v1840         SL-RelayUE-ConfigU2U-v1840,
    sl-RemoteUE-PreconfigU2U-v1840        SL-RemoteUE-ConfigU2U-v1830
}

-- TAG-SL-PRECONFIGURATIONNR-STOP
-- ASN1STOP



–	End of NR-Sidelink-Preconf
-- ASN1START

END

-- ASN1STOP

9.4	Radio Information Related to Discovery Message
This clause specifies RRC information elements that are transferred in Discovery Message.
–	SL-AccessInfo-L2U2N
The IE SL-AccessInfo-L2U2N includes the radio information included in Discovery Message used for L2 U2N relay operation.
SL-AccessInfo-L2U2N information elements
-- ASN1START
-- TAG-SL-ACCESSINFO-L2U2N-START

NR-Sidelink-DiscoveryMessage DEFINITIONS AUTOMATIC TAGS ::=

BEGIN
IMPORTS
    CellAccessRelatedInfo,
    SL-ServingCellInfo-r17,
    SL-RelayIndicationMP-r18
FROM NR-RRC-Definitions;

SL-AccessInfo-L2U2N-r17 ::=             SEQUENCE {
    cellAccessRelatedInfo-r17               CellAccessRelatedInfo,
    sl-ServingCellInfo-r17                  SL-ServingCellInfo-r17,
    ...,
    [[
    sl-RelayIndication-r18                  SL-RelayIndicationMP-r18                  OPTIONAL
    ]]
}

END

-- TAG-SL-ACCESSINFO-L2U2N-STOP
-- ASN1STOP
9.5	Void
10	Generic error handling
10.1	General
The generic error handling defined in the subsequent clauses applies unless explicitly specified otherwise e.g. within the procedure specific error handling.
The UE shall consider a value as not comprehended when it is set:
-	to an extended value that is not defined in the version of the transfer syntax supported by the UE;
-	to a spare or reserved value unless the specification defines specific behaviour that the UE shall apply upon receiving the concerned spare/reserved value.
The UE shall consider a field as not comprehended when it is defined:
-	as spare or reserved unless the specification defines specific behaviour that the UE shall apply upon receiving the concerned spare/reserved field.
10.2	ASN.1 violation or encoding error
The UE shall:
1>	when receiving an RRC message on the BCCH, CCCH, PCCH, MCCH, multicast MCCH or a PC5 RRC message on SBCCH for which the abstract syntax is invalid [6]:
2>	ignore the message.
NOTE:	This clause applies in case one or more fields is set to a value, other than a spare, reserved or extended value, not defined in this version of the transfer syntax. E.g. in the case the UE receives value 12 for a field defined as INTEGER (1..11). In cases like this, it may not be possible to reliably detect which field is in the error hence the error handling is at the message level.
10.3	Field set to a not comprehended value
The UE shall, when receiving an RRC message or PC5 RRC message on any logical channel:
1>	if the message includes a field that has a value that the UE does not comprehend:
2>	if a default value is defined for this field:
3>	treat the message while using the default value defined for this field;
2>	else if the concerned field is optional:
3>	treat the message as if the field were absent and in accordance with the need code for absence of the concerned field;
2>	else:
3>	treat the message as if the field were absent and in accordance with clause 10.4.
10.4	Mandatory field missing
The UE shall:
1>	if the message includes a field that is mandatory to include in the message (e.g. because conditions for mandatory presence are fulfilled) and that field is absent or treated as absent:
2>	if the RRC message was not received on DCCH or CCCH; or
2>	if the PC5 RRC message was not received on SCCH:
3>	if the field concerns a (sub-field of) an entry of a list (i.e. a SEQUENCE OF):
4>	treat the list as if the entry including the missing or not comprehended field was absent;
3>	else if the field concerns a sub-field of another field, referred to as the 'parent' field i.e. the field that is one nesting level up compared to the erroneous field:
4>	consider the 'parent' field to be set to a not comprehended value;
4>	apply the generic error handling to the subsequent 'parent' field(s), until reaching the top nesting level i.e. the message level;
3>	else (field at message level):
4>	ignore the message.
NOTE 1:	The error handling defined in these clauses implies that the UE ignores a message with the message type or version set to a not comprehended value.
NOTE 2:	The nested error handling for messages received on logical channels other than DCCH, CCCH and SCCH applies for errors in extensions also, even for errors that can be regarded as invalid network operation e.g. the network not observing conditional presence.
NOTE 3:	UE behaviour on receipt of an RRC message on DCCH or CCCH or a PC5 RRC message on SCCH that does not include a field that is mandatory (e.g. because conditions for mandatory presence are fulfilled) is unspecified.
The following ASN.1 further clarifies the levels applicable in case of nested error handling for errors in extension fields.
-- /example/ ASN1START

-- Example with extension addition group

ItemInfoList ::=                    SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..max)) OFItemInfo

ItemInfo ::=                        SEQUENCE {
    itemIdentity                        INTEGER (1..max),
    field1                              Field1,
    field2                              Field2                  OPTIONAL,           -- Need N
    ...
    [[
    field3-r9                       Field3-r9               OPTIONAL,              -- Cond Cond1
    field4-r9                       Field4-r9               OPTIONAL               -- Need N
    ]]
}

-- Example with traditional non-critical extension (empty sequence)

BroadcastInfoBlock1 ::=             SEQUENCE {
    itemIdentity                        INTEGER (1..max),
    field1                              Field1,
    field2                              Field2                  OPTIONAL,           -- Need N
    nonCriticalExtension                BroadcastInfoBlock1-v940-IEs    OPTIONAL
}

BroadcastInfoBlock1-v940-IEs::=	SEQUENCE {
    field3-r9                           Field3-r9               OPTIONAL,           -- Cond Cond1
    field4-r9                           Field4-r9               OPTIONAL,           -- Need N
    nonCriticalExtension                SEQUENCE {}             OPTIONAL            -- Need S
}

-- ASN1STOP

The UE shall, apply the following principles regarding the levels applicable in case of nested error handling:
-	an extension addition group is not regarded as a level on its own. E.g. in the ASN.1 extract in the previous, a error regarding the conditionality of field3 would result in the entire itemInfo entry to be ignored (rather than just the extension addition group containing field3 and field4);
-	a traditional nonCriticalExtension is not regarded as a level on its own. E.g. in the ASN.1 extract in the previous, an error regarding the conditionality of field3 would result in the entire BroadcastInfoBlock1 to be ignored (rather than just the non-critical extension containing field3 and field4).
10.5	Not comprehended field
The UE shall, when receiving an RRC message on any logical channel:
1>	if the message includes a field that the UE does not comprehend:
2>	treat the rest of the message as if the field was absent.
NOTE:	This clause does not apply to the case of an extension to the value range of a field. Such cases are addressed instead by the requirements in clause 10.3.
11	Radio information related interactions between network nodes
11.1	General
This clause specifies RRC messages that are transferred between network nodes. These RRC messages may be transferred to or from the UE via another Radio Access Technology. Consequently, these messages have similar characteristics as the RRC messages that are transferred across the NR radio interface, i.e. the same transfer syntax and protocol extension mechanisms apply.
11.2	Inter-node RRC messages
11.2.1	General
This clause specifies RRC messages that are sent either across the X2-, Xn- or the NG-interface, either to or from the gNB, i.e. a single 'logical channel' is used for all RRC messages transferred across network nodes. The information could originate from or be destined for another RAT.
-- ASN1START
-- TAG-NR-INTER-NODE-DEFINITIONS-START

NR-InterNodeDefinitions DEFINITIONS AUTOMATIC TAGS ::=

BEGIN

IMPORTS
    AffectedCarrierFreqCombList-r16,
    AffectedCarrierFreqRangeCombList-r18,
    ARFCN-ValueNR,
    ARFCN-ValueEUTRA,
    CandidateServingFreqListNR-r16,
    CandidateServingFreqRangeListNR-r18,
    CellIdentity,
    CGI-InfoEUTRA,
    CGI-InfoNR,
    CondReconfigExecCondSCG-r17,
    CSI-RS-Index,
    CSI-RS-CellMobility,
    DRX-Config,
    EUTRA-PhysCellId,
    FeatureSetDownlinkPerCC-Id,
    FeatureSetUplinkPerCC-Id,
    FlightPathInfoReport-r18,
    FreqBandIndicatorNR,
    GapConfig,
    IDC-TDM-Assistance-r18,
    maxBandComb,
    maxBands,
    maxBandsEUTRA,
    maxCandidateBandIndex-r18,
    maxCellSFTD,
    maxFeatureSetsPerBand,
    maxFreq,
    maxFreqIDC-MRDC,
    maxNrofCombIDC,
    maxNrofCondCells-r16,
    maxNrofCondCells-1-r17,
    maxNrofPhysicalResourceBlocks,
    maxNrofSCells,
    maxNrofServingCells,
    maxNrofServingCells-1,
    maxNrofServingCellsEUTRA,
    maxNrofIndexesToReport,
    maxNrofLTM-Configs-r18,
    maxSimultaneousBands,
    MBSInterestIndication-r17,
    MeasQuantityResults,
    MeasResultCellListSFTD-EUTRA,
    MeasResultCellListSFTD-NR,
    MeasResultList2NR,
    MeasResultSCG-Failure,
    MeasResultServFreqListEUTRA-SCG,
    MUSIM-CandidateBandList-r18,
    MUSIM-CapRestriction-r18,
    MUSIM-GapConfig-r17,
    NeedForGapsInfoNR-r16,
    NeedForGapNCSG-InfoNR-r17,
    NeedForGapNCSG-InfoEUTRA-r17,
    NeedForInterruptionInfoNR-r18,
    OverheatingAssistance,
    OverheatingAssistance-r17,
    P-Max,
    PhysCellId,
    RadioBearerConfig,
    RAN-NotificationAreaInfo,
    ReferenceConfiguration-r18,
    ReportConfigNR,
    RRCReconfiguration,
    ServCellIndex,
    SetupRelease,
    SSB-Index,
    SSB-MTC,
    SSB-ToMeasure,
    SS-RSSI-Measurement,
    ShortMAC-I,
    SubcarrierSpacing,
    UEAssistanceInformation,
    UE-CapabilityRAT-ContainerList,
    maxNrofCLI-RSSI-Resources-r16,
    maxNrofCLI-SRS-Resources-r16,
    RSSI-ResourceId-r16,
    SDT-Config-r17,
    SidelinkUEInformationNR-r16,
    SRS-PosRRC-InactiveValidityAreaPreConfigList-r18,
    SRS-ResourceId,
    SuccessPSCell-Config-r18,
    SupportedAggBandwidth-r17,
    UE-RadioPagingInfo-r17
FROM NR-RRC-Definitions;

-- TAG-NR-INTER-NODE-DEFINITIONS-STOP
-- ASN1STOP

11.2.2	Message definitions
–	CG-CandidateList
This message is used to transfer the SCG radio configuration for one or more candidate cells for Conditional PSCell Addition (CPA), Conditional PSCell Change (CPC), inter-SN subsequent CPAC, or CHO with candidate SCG(s) as generated by the candidate target SgNB, or the serving SgNB in case of intra-SN subsequent CPAC configuration(s) which are delivered embedded within an RRC message generated by the MN.
Direction: Secondary gNB to master gNB or eNB.
CG-CandidateList message
-- ASN1START
-- TAG-CG-CANDIDATELIST-START

CG-CandidateList ::=                SEQUENCE {
    criticalExtensions                  CHOICE {
        c1                                  CHOICE{
            cg-CandidateList-r17                CG-CandidateList-r17-IEs,
            spare3 NULL, spare2 NULL, spare1 NULL
        },
        criticalExtensionsFuture            SEQUENCE {}
    }
}

CG-CandidateList-r17-IEs ::=        SEQUENCE {
    cg-CandidateToAddModList-r17        SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxNrofCondCells-r16)) OF CG-CandidateInfo-r17    OPTIONAL,
    cg-CandidateToReleaseList-r17       SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxNrofCondCells-r16)) OF CG-CandidateInfoId-r17  OPTIONAL,
    nonCriticalExtension                SEQUENCE {}                                                          OPTIONAL
}

CG-CandidateInfo-r17 ::=            SEQUENCE {
    cg-CandidateInfoId-r17              CG-CandidateInfoId-r17,
    candidateCG-Config-r17             OCTET STRING (CONTAINING CG-Config)
}

CG-CandidateInfoId-r17::=           SEQUENCE {
    ssbFrequency-r17                    ARFCN-ValueNR,
    physCellId-r17                      PhysCellId
}

-- TAG-CG-CANDIDATELIST-STOP
-- ASN1STOP





–	HandoverCommand
This message is used to transfer the handover command as generated by the target gNB.
Direction: target gNB to source gNB/source RAN.
HandoverCommand message
-- ASN1START
-- TAG-HANDOVER-COMMAND-START

HandoverCommand ::=                      SEQUENCE {
    criticalExtensions                       CHOICE {
        c1                                       CHOICE{
            handoverCommand                          HandoverCommand-IEs,
            spare3 NULL, spare2 NULL, spare1 NULL
        },
        criticalExtensionsFuture                 SEQUENCE {}
    }
}

HandoverCommand-IEs ::=                  SEQUENCE {
    handoverCommandMessage                   OCTET STRING (CONTAINING RRCReconfiguration),
    nonCriticalExtension                     HandoverCommand-v1800-IEs                             OPTIONAL
}

HandoverCommand-v1800-IEs ::=            SEQUENCE {
    candPSCellExecutionConditionInfo-r18     CandPSCellExecutionConditionInfo-r18                  OPTIONAL,
    nonCriticalExtension                     SEQUENCE {}                                           OPTIONAL
}

CandPSCellExecutionConditionInfo-r18 ::= SEQUENCE {
    candPSCellExecCondReportConfigNR-r18     SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..2)) OF ReportConfigNR,
    ...
}

-- TAG-HANDOVER-COMMAND-STOP
-- ASN1STOP



–	HandoverPreparationInformation
This message is used to transfer the NR RRC information used by the target gNB during handover preparation or UE context retrieval, e.g. in case of resume or re-establishment, including UE capability information. This message is also used for transferring the information between the CU and DU.
Direction: source gNB/source RAN to target gNB or CU to DU.
HandoverPreparationInformation message
-- ASN1START
-- TAG-HANDOVER-PREPARATION-INFORMATION-START

HandoverPreparationInformation ::=      SEQUENCE {
    criticalExtensions                      CHOICE {
        c1                                      CHOICE{
            handoverPreparationInformation          HandoverPreparationInformation-IEs,
            spare3 NULL, spare2 NULL, spare1 NULL
        },
        criticalExtensionsFuture            SEQUENCE {}
    }
}

HandoverPreparationInformation-IEs ::=  SEQUENCE {
    ue-CapabilityRAT-List                   UE-CapabilityRAT-ContainerList,
    sourceConfig                            AS-Config                                       OPTIONAL, -- Cond HO
    rrm-Config                              RRM-Config                                      OPTIONAL,
    as-Context                              AS-Context                                      OPTIONAL,
    nonCriticalExtension                    SEQUENCE {}                                     OPTIONAL
}

AS-Config ::=                           SEQUENCE {
    rrcReconfiguration                      OCTET STRING (CONTAINING RRCReconfiguration),
    ...,
    [[
    sourceRB-SN-Config                      OCTET STRING (CONTAINING RadioBearerConfig)     OPTIONAL,
    sourceSCG-NR-Config                     OCTET STRING (CONTAINING RRCReconfiguration)    OPTIONAL,
    sourceSCG-EUTRA-Config                  OCTET STRING                                    OPTIONAL
    ]],
    [[
    sourceSCG-Configured                    ENUMERATED {true}                               OPTIONAL
    ]],
    [[
    sdt-Config-r17                          SDT-Config-r17                                  OPTIONAL
    ]],
    [[
    srs-PosRRC-InactiveValidityAreaPreConfigList-r18  SRS-PosRRC-InactiveValidityAreaPreConfigList-r18   OPTIONAL
    ]]
}

AS-Context ::=                          SEQUENCE {
    reestablishmentInfo                     ReestablishmentInfo                                 OPTIONAL,
    configRestrictInfo                      ConfigRestrictInfoSCG                               OPTIONAL,
    ...,
    [[  ran-NotificationAreaInfo            RAN-NotificationAreaInfo                            OPTIONAL
    ]],
    [[  ueAssistanceInformation             OCTET STRING (CONTAINING UEAssistanceInformation)   OPTIONAL   -- Cond HO2
    ]],
    [[
    selectedBandCombinationSN               BandCombinationInfoSN                               OPTIONAL
    ]],
    [[
    configRestrictInfoDAPS-r16              ConfigRestrictInfoDAPS-r16                          OPTIONAL,
    sidelinkUEInformationNR-r16             OCTET STRING                                        OPTIONAL,
    sidelinkUEInformationEUTRA-r16          OCTET STRING                                        OPTIONAL,
    ueAssistanceInformationEUTRA-r16        OCTET STRING                                        OPTIONAL,
    ueAssistanceInformationSCG-r16          OCTET STRING (CONTAINING UEAssistanceInformation)   OPTIONAL,   -- Cond HO2
    needForGapsInfoNR-r16                   NeedForGapsInfoNR-r16                               OPTIONAL
    ]],
    [[
    configRestrictInfoDAPS-v1640            ConfigRestrictInfoDAPS-v1640                        OPTIONAL
    ]],
    [[
    needForGapNCSG-InfoNR-r17               NeedForGapNCSG-InfoNR-r17                           OPTIONAL,
    needForGapNCSG-InfoEUTRA-r17            NeedForGapNCSG-InfoEUTRA-r17                        OPTIONAL,
    mbsInterestIndication-r17               OCTET STRING (CONTAINING MBSInterestIndication-r17) OPTIONAL
    ]],
    [[
    needForInterruptionInfoNR-r18           NeedForInterruptionInfoNR-r18                       OPTIONAL,
    flightPathInfoReport-r18                FlightPathInfoReport-r18                            OPTIONAL
    ]]
}

ConfigRestrictInfoDAPS-r16 ::=          SEQUENCE {
    powerCoordination-r16                   SEQUENCE {
        p-DAPS-Source-r16                       P-Max,
        p-DAPS-Target-r16                       P-Max,
        uplinkPowerSharingDAPS-Mode-r16          ENUMERATED {semi-static-mode1, semi-static-mode2, dynamic }
    }                                                                                                       OPTIONAL
}

ConfigRestrictInfoDAPS-v1640 ::=    SEQUENCE {
    sourceFeatureSetPerDownlinkCC-r16   FeatureSetDownlinkPerCC-Id,
    sourceFeatureSetPerUplinkCC-r16     FeatureSetUplinkPerCC-Id
}

ReestablishmentInfo ::=             SEQUENCE {
    sourcePhysCellId                        PhysCellId,
    targetCellShortMAC-I                    ShortMAC-I,
    additionalReestabInfoList               ReestabNCellInfoList                            OPTIONAL
}

ReestabNCellInfoList ::=             SEQUENCE ( SIZE (1..maxCellPrep) ) OF ReestabNCellInfo

ReestabNCellInfo::= SEQUENCE{
    cellIdentity                            CellIdentity,
    key-gNodeB-Star                         BIT STRING (SIZE (256)),
    shortMAC-I                              ShortMAC-I
}

RRM-Config ::=              SEQUENCE {
    ue-InactiveTime             ENUMERATED {
                                    s1, s2, s3, s5, s7, s10, s15, s20,
                                    s25, s30, s40, s50, min1, min1s20, min1s40,
                                    min2, min2s30, min3, min3s30, min4, min5, min6,
                                    min7, min8, min9, min10, min12, min14, min17, min20,
                                    min24, min28, min33, min38, min44, min50, hr1,
                                    hr1min30, hr2, hr2min30, hr3, hr3min30, hr4, hr5, hr6,
                                    hr8, hr10, hr13, hr16, hr20, day1, day1hr12, day2,
                                    day2hr12, day3, day4, day5, day7, day10, day14, day19,
                                    day24, day30, dayMoreThan30}                            OPTIONAL,
    candidateCellInfoList       MeasResultList2NR                                           OPTIONAL,
    ...,
    [[
    candidateCellInfoListSN-EUTRA      MeasResultServFreqListEUTRA-SCG                      OPTIONAL
    ]]
}

-- TAG-HANDOVER-PREPARATION-INFORMATION-STOP
-- ASN1STOP













NOTE 1:	The following table indicates per source RAT whether RAT capabilities are included or not.



NOTE 2:	The following table indicates, in case of inter-RAT handover from E-UTRA, which additional IEs are included or not:


–	CG-Config
This message is used to transfer the SCG radio configuration as generated by the SgNB or SeNB. It can also be used by a CU to request a DU to perform certain actions, e.g. to request the DU to perform a new lower layer configuration.
Direction: Secondary gNB or eNB to master gNB or eNB, alternatively CU to DU.
CG-Config message
-- ASN1START
-- TAG-CG-CONFIG-START

CG-Config ::=                   SEQUENCE {
    criticalExtensions                  CHOICE {
        c1                                  CHOICE{
            cg-Config                           CG-Config-IEs,
            spare3 NULL, spare2 NULL, spare1 NULL
        },
        criticalExtensionsFuture            SEQUENCE {}
    }
}

CG-Config-IEs ::=                   SEQUENCE {
    scg-CellGroupConfig                 OCTET STRING (CONTAINING RRCReconfiguration)    OPTIONAL,
    scg-RB-Config                       OCTET STRING (CONTAINING RadioBearerConfig)     OPTIONAL,
    configRestrictModReq                ConfigRestrictModReqSCG                         OPTIONAL,
    drx-InfoSCG                         DRX-Info                                        OPTIONAL,
    candidateCellInfoListSN             OCTET STRING (CONTAINING MeasResultList2NR)     OPTIONAL,
    measConfigSN                        MeasConfigSN                                    OPTIONAL,
    selectedBandCombination             BandCombinationInfoSN                           OPTIONAL,
    fr-InfoListSCG                      FR-InfoList                                     OPTIONAL,
    candidateServingFreqListNR          CandidateServingFreqListNR                      OPTIONAL,
    nonCriticalExtension                CG-Config-v1540-IEs                             OPTIONAL
}

CG-Config-v1540-IEs ::=             SEQUENCE {
    pSCellFrequency                     ARFCN-ValueNR                                   OPTIONAL,
    reportCGI-RequestNR                 SEQUENCE {
        requestedCellInfo                   SEQUENCE {
            ssbFrequency                        ARFCN-ValueNR,
            cellForWhichToReportCGI             PhysCellId
        }                                                                               OPTIONAL
    }                                                                                   OPTIONAL,
    ph-InfoSCG                          PH-TypeListSCG                                  OPTIONAL,
    nonCriticalExtension                CG-Config-v1560-IEs                             OPTIONAL
}

CG-Config-v1560-IEs ::=             SEQUENCE {
    pSCellFrequencyEUTRA                ARFCN-ValueEUTRA                                OPTIONAL,
    scg-CellGroupConfigEUTRA            OCTET STRING                                    OPTIONAL,
    candidateCellInfoListSN-EUTRA       OCTET STRING                                    OPTIONAL,
    candidateServingFreqListEUTRA       CandidateServingFreqListEUTRA                   OPTIONAL,
    needForGaps                         ENUMERATED {true}                               OPTIONAL,
    drx-ConfigSCG                       DRX-Config                                      OPTIONAL,
    reportCGI-RequestEUTRA              SEQUENCE {
        requestedCellInfoEUTRA          SEQUENCE {
            eutraFrequency                             ARFCN-ValueEUTRA,
            cellForWhichToReportCGI-EUTRA              EUTRA-PhysCellId
        }                                                                               OPTIONAL
    }                                                                                   OPTIONAL,
    nonCriticalExtension                CG-Config-v1590-IEs                             OPTIONAL
}

CG-Config-v1590-IEs ::=             SEQUENCE {
    scellFrequenciesSN-NR               SEQUENCE (SIZE (1.. maxNrofServingCells-1)) OF  ARFCN-ValueNR          OPTIONAL,
    scellFrequenciesSN-EUTRA            SEQUENCE (SIZE (1.. maxNrofServingCells-1)) OF  ARFCN-ValueEUTRA       OPTIONAL,
    nonCriticalExtension                CG-Config-v1610-IEs                                                    OPTIONAL
}

CG-Config-v1610-IEs ::=             SEQUENCE {
    drx-InfoSCG2                        DRX-Info2                                       OPTIONAL,
    nonCriticalExtension                CG-Config-v1620-IEs                             OPTIONAL
}

CG-Config-v1620-IEs ::=             SEQUENCE {
    ueAssistanceInformationSCG-r16      OCTET STRING (CONTAINING UEAssistanceInformation)  OPTIONAL,
    nonCriticalExtension                CG-Config-v1630-IEs                                OPTIONAL
}

CG-Config-v1630-IEs ::=             SEQUENCE {
    selectedToffset-r16                 T-Offset-r16                                       OPTIONAL,
    nonCriticalExtension                CG-Config-v1640-IEs                                OPTIONAL
}

CG-Config-v1640-IEs ::=             SEQUENCE {
    servCellInfoListSCG-NR-r16          ServCellInfoListSCG-NR-r16                      OPTIONAL,
    servCellInfoListSCG-EUTRA-r16       ServCellInfoListSCG-EUTRA-r16                   OPTIONAL,
    nonCriticalExtension                CG-Config-v1700-IEs                             OPTIONAL
}

CG-Config-v1700-IEs ::=             SEQUENCE {
    candidateCellInfoListCPC-r17        CandidateCellInfoListCPC-r17                    OPTIONAL,
    twoPHRModeSCG-r17                   ENUMERATED {enabled}                            OPTIONAL,
    nonCriticalExtension                CG-Config-v1730-IEs                             OPTIONAL
}

CG-Config-v1730-IEs ::=             SEQUENCE {
    fr1-Carriers-SCG-r17                INTEGER (1..32)                                 OPTIONAL,
    fr2-Carriers-SCG-r17                INTEGER (1..32)                                 OPTIONAL,
    nonCriticalExtension                CG-Config-v1800-IEs                             OPTIONAL
}

CG-Config-v1800-IEs ::=             SEQUENCE {
    candidateServingFreqRangeListNR-r18    CandidateServingFreqRangeListNR-r18             OPTIONAL,
    candidateServingFreqListNR-r18         CandidateServingFreqListNR-r16                  OPTIONAL,
    idc-TDM-AssistanceConfig-r18           ENUMERATED {enabled}                            OPTIONAL,
    candidateCellInfoListSubsequentCPC-r18 CandidateCellInfoListCPC-r17                    OPTIONAL,
    scpac-ReferenceConfigurationSCG-r18    ReferenceConfiguration-r18                      OPTIONAL,
    subsequentCPAC-Information-r18         CandidateCellInfoListCPC-r17                    OPTIONAL,
    successPSCell-Config-r18               SuccessPSCell-Config-r18                        OPTIONAL,
    nonCriticalExtension                   SEQUENCE {}                                     OPTIONAL
}
ServCellInfoListSCG-NR-r16 ::=      SEQUENCE (SIZE (1.. maxNrofServingCells)) OF  ServCellInfoXCG-NR-r16

ServCellInfoXCG-NR-r16 ::=          SEQUENCE {
    dl-FreqInfo-NR-r16                  FrequencyConfig-NR-r16                          OPTIONAL,
    ul-FreqInfo-NR-r16                  FrequencyConfig-NR-r16                          OPTIONAL, -- Cond FDD
    ...
}

FrequencyConfig-NR-r16 ::=          SEQUENCE {
    freqBandIndicatorNR-r16             FreqBandIndicatorNR,
    carrierCenterFreq-NR-r16            ARFCN-ValueNR,
    carrierBandwidth-NR-r16             INTEGER (1..maxNrofPhysicalResourceBlocks),
    subcarrierSpacing-NR-r16            SubcarrierSpacing
}

ServCellInfoListSCG-EUTRA-r16 ::=   SEQUENCE (SIZE (1.. maxNrofServingCellsEUTRA)) OF ServCellInfoXCG-EUTRA-r16

ServCellInfoXCG-EUTRA-r16 ::=       SEQUENCE {
    dl-CarrierFreq-EUTRA-r16            ARFCN-ValueEUTRA                                OPTIONAL,
    ul-CarrierFreq-EUTRA-r16            ARFCN-ValueEUTRA                                OPTIONAL, -- Cond FDD
    transmissionBandwidth-EUTRA-r16     TransmissionBandwidth-EUTRA-r16                 OPTIONAL,
    ...
}

TransmissionBandwidth-EUTRA-r16 ::= ENUMERATED {rb6, rb15, rb25, rb50, rb75, rb100}

PH-TypeListSCG ::=                  SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxNrofServingCells)) OF PH-InfoSCG

PH-InfoSCG ::=                      SEQUENCE {
    servCellIndex                       ServCellIndex,
    ph-Uplink                           PH-UplinkCarrierSCG,
    ph-SupplementaryUplink              PH-UplinkCarrierSCG                             OPTIONAL,
    ...,
    [[
    twoSRS-PUSCH-Repetition-r17         ENUMERATED{enabled}                             OPTIONAL
    ]],
    [[
    twoSRS-MultipanelScheme-r18         ENUMERATED{enabled}                             OPTIONAL
    ]]
}

PH-UplinkCarrierSCG ::=             SEQUENCE{
    ph-Type1or3                         ENUMERATED {type1, type3},
    ...
}

MeasConfigSN ::=                    SEQUENCE {
    measuredFrequenciesSN               SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxMeasFreqsSN)) OF NR-FreqInfo  OPTIONAL,
    ...
}

NR-FreqInfo ::=                     SEQUENCE {
    measuredFrequency                   ARFCN-ValueNR                                       OPTIONAL,
    ...
}

ConfigRestrictModReqSCG ::=         SEQUENCE {
    requestedBC-MRDC                    BandCombinationInfoSN                               OPTIONAL,
    requestedP-MaxFR1                   P-Max                                               OPTIONAL,
    ...,
    [[
    requestedPDCCH-BlindDetectionSCG    INTEGER (1..15)                                     OPTIONAL,
    requestedP-MaxEUTRA                 P-Max                                               OPTIONAL
    ]],
    [[
    requestedP-MaxFR2-r16               P-Max                                               OPTIONAL,
    requestedMaxInterFreqMeasIdSCG-r16  INTEGER(1..maxMeasIdentitiesMN)                     OPTIONAL,
    requestedMaxIntraFreqMeasIdSCG-r16  INTEGER(1..maxMeasIdentitiesMN)                     OPTIONAL,
    requestedToffset-r16                T-Offset-r16                                        OPTIONAL
    ]],
    [[
    reservedResourceConfigNRDC-r17      ResourceConfigNRDC-r17                              OPTIONAL
    ]],
    [[
    aggregatedBandwidthSN-r17           AggregatedBandwidthSN-r17                           OPTIONAL
    ]],
    [[
    requestedMaxLTM-CandidateIdSCG-r18  INTEGER(0..maxNrofLTM-Configs-r18)                  OPTIONAL
    ]],
    [[
    requestedL1-MeasConfigNRDC-r18      L1-MeasConfigNRDC-r18                               OPTIONAL
    ]],
    [[
    requestedLTM-ResourceConfigNRDC-r18 LTM-ResourceConfigNRDC-r18                          OPTIONAL
    ]]
}

BandCombinationIndex ::= INTEGER (1..maxBandComb)

BandCombinationInfoSN ::=           SEQUENCE {
    bandCombinationIndex                BandCombinationIndex,
    requestedFeatureSets                FeatureSetEntryIndex
}

FR-InfoList ::= SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxNrofServingCells-1)) OF FR-Info

FR-Info ::= SEQUENCE {
    servCellIndex       ServCellIndex,
    fr-Type             ENUMERATED {fr1, fr2}
}

CandidateServingFreqListNR ::= SEQUENCE (SIZE (1.. maxFreqIDC-MRDC)) OF ARFCN-ValueNR

CandidateServingFreqListEUTRA ::= SEQUENCE (SIZE (1.. maxFreqIDC-MRDC)) OF ARFCN-ValueEUTRA

T-Offset-r16 ::= ENUMERATED {ms0dot5, ms0dot75, ms1, ms1dot5, ms2, ms2dot5, ms3, spare1}

CandidateCellInfoListCPC-r17 ::= SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxFreq)) OF CandidateCellInfo-r17

CandidateCellInfo-r17 ::=        SEQUENCE {
    ssbFrequency-r17                 ARFCN-ValueNR,
    candidateList-r17                SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxNrofCondCells-r16)) OF CandidateCell-r17
}

CandidateCell-r17 ::=            SEQUENCE {
    physCellId-r17                   PhysCellId,
    condExecutionCondSCG-r17         OCTET STRING (CONTAINING CondReconfigExecCondSCG-r17)               OPTIONAL
}

AggregatedBandwidthSN-r17 ::= SEQUENCE {
    aggBW-FDD-DL-r17              SupportedAggBandwidth-r17                 OPTIONAL,
    aggBW-FDD-UL-r17              SupportedAggBandwidth-r17                 OPTIONAL,
    aggBW-TDD-DL-r17              SupportedAggBandwidth-r17                 OPTIONAL,
    aggBW-TDD-UL-r17              SupportedAggBandwidth-r17                 OPTIONAL,
    aggBW-TotalDL-r17             SupportedAggBandwidth-r17                 OPTIONAL,
    aggBW-TotalUL-r17             SupportedAggBandwidth-r17                 OPTIONAL
}

-- TAG-CG-CONFIG-STOP
-- ASN1STOP







–	CG-ConfigInfo
This message is used by master eNB or gNB to request the SgNB or SeNB to perform certain actions e.g. to establish, modify or release an SCG. The message may include additional information e.g. to assist the SgNB or SeNB to set the SCG configuration. It can also be used by a CU to request a DU to perform certain actions, e.g. to establish, or modify an MCG or SCG.
Direction: Master eNB or gNB to secondary gNB or eNB, alternatively CU to DU.
CG-ConfigInfo message
-- ASN1START
-- TAG-CG-CONFIG-INFO-START

CG-ConfigInfo ::=               SEQUENCE {
    criticalExtensions              CHOICE {
        c1                              CHOICE{
            cg-ConfigInfo               CG-ConfigInfo-IEs,
            spare3 NULL, spare2 NULL, spare1 NULL
        },
        criticalExtensionsFuture        SEQUENCE {}
    }
}

CG-ConfigInfo-IEs ::=           SEQUENCE {
    ue-CapabilityInfo               OCTET STRING (CONTAINING UE-CapabilityRAT-ContainerList)          OPTIONAL,-- Cond SN-AddMod
    candidateCellInfoListMN         MeasResultList2NR                                                 OPTIONAL,
    candidateCellInfoListSN         OCTET STRING (CONTAINING MeasResultList2NR)                       OPTIONAL,
    measResultCellListSFTD-NR       MeasResultCellListSFTD-NR                                         OPTIONAL,
    scgFailureInfo                  SEQUENCE {
        failureType                     ENUMERATED { t310-Expiry, randomAccessProblem,
                                                     rlc-MaxNumRetx, synchReconfigFailure-SCG,
                                                     scg-reconfigFailure,
                                                     srb3-IntegrityFailure},
        measResultSCG                   OCTET STRING (CONTAINING MeasResultSCG-Failure)
    }                                                                                                 OPTIONAL,
    configRestrictInfo              ConfigRestrictInfoSCG                                             OPTIONAL,
    drx-InfoMCG                     DRX-Info                                                          OPTIONAL,
    measConfigMN                    MeasConfigMN                                                      OPTIONAL,
    sourceConfigSCG                 OCTET STRING (CONTAINING RRCReconfiguration)                      OPTIONAL,
    scg-RB-Config                   OCTET STRING (CONTAINING RadioBearerConfig)                       OPTIONAL,
    mcg-RB-Config                   OCTET STRING (CONTAINING RadioBearerConfig)                       OPTIONAL,
    mrdc-AssistanceInfo             MRDC-AssistanceInfo                                               OPTIONAL,
    nonCriticalExtension            CG-ConfigInfo-v1540-IEs                                           OPTIONAL
}

CG-ConfigInfo-v1540-IEs ::=     SEQUENCE {
    ph-InfoMCG                      PH-TypeListMCG                                                    OPTIONAL,
    measResultReportCGI             SEQUENCE {
        ssbFrequency                    ARFCN-ValueNR,
        cellForWhichToReportCGI         PhysCellId,
        cgi-Info                        CGI-InfoNR
    }                                                                                                 OPTIONAL,
    nonCriticalExtension            CG-ConfigInfo-v1560-IEs                                           OPTIONAL
}

CG-ConfigInfo-v1560-IEs ::=  SEQUENCE {
    candidateCellInfoListMN-EUTRA       OCTET STRING                                                  OPTIONAL,
    candidateCellInfoListSN-EUTRA       OCTET STRING                                                  OPTIONAL,
    sourceConfigSCG-EUTRA               OCTET STRING                                                  OPTIONAL,
    scgFailureInfoEUTRA                 SEQUENCE {
        failureTypeEUTRA                    ENUMERATED { t313-Expiry, randomAccessProblem,
                                                    rlc-MaxNumRetx, scg-ChangeFailure},
        measResultSCG-EUTRA                 OCTET STRING
    }                                                                                                 OPTIONAL,
    drx-ConfigMCG                       DRX-Config                                                    OPTIONAL,
    measResultReportCGI-EUTRA               SEQUENCE {
        eutraFrequency                      ARFCN-ValueEUTRA,
        cellForWhichToReportCGI-EUTRA           EUTRA-PhysCellId,
        cgi-InfoEUTRA                           CGI-InfoEUTRA
    }                                                                                                 OPTIONAL,
    measResultCellListSFTD-EUTRA        MeasResultCellListSFTD-EUTRA                                  OPTIONAL,
    fr-InfoListMCG                      FR-InfoList                                                   OPTIONAL,
    nonCriticalExtension                CG-ConfigInfo-v1570-IEs                                       OPTIONAL
}

CG-ConfigInfo-v1570-IEs ::=  SEQUENCE {
    sftdFrequencyList-NR                SFTD-FrequencyList-NR                                         OPTIONAL,
    sftdFrequencyList-EUTRA             SFTD-FrequencyList-EUTRA                                      OPTIONAL,
    nonCriticalExtension                CG-ConfigInfo-v1590-IEs                                       OPTIONAL
}

CG-ConfigInfo-v1590-IEs ::=  SEQUENCE {
    servFrequenciesMN-NR            SEQUENCE (SIZE (1.. maxNrofServingCells-1)) OF  ARFCN-ValueNR     OPTIONAL,
    nonCriticalExtension            CG-ConfigInfo-v1610-IEs                                           OPTIONAL
}

CG-ConfigInfo-v1610-IEs ::=  SEQUENCE {
    drx-InfoMCG2                 DRX-Info2                                                            OPTIONAL,
    alignedDRX-Indication        ENUMERATED {true}                                                    OPTIONAL,
    scgFailureInfo-r16                  SEQUENCE {
        failureType-r16                     ENUMERATED { scg-lbtFailure-r16, beamFailureRecoveryFailure-r16,
                                                         t312-Expiry-r16, bh-RLF-r16,
                                                         beamFailure-r17, spare3, spare2, spare1},
        measResultSCG-r16                   OCTET STRING (CONTAINING MeasResultSCG-Failure)
    }                                                                                                 OPTIONAL,
    dummy1                                  SEQUENCE {
        failureTypeEUTRA-r16                    ENUMERATED { scg-lbtFailure-r16, beamFailureRecoveryFailure-r16,
                                                         t312-Expiry-r16, spare5,
                                                                     spare4, spare3, spare2, spare1},
        measResultSCG-EUTRA-r16                 OCTET STRING
    }                                                                                                 OPTIONAL,
    sidelinkUEInformationNR-r16      OCTET STRING (CONTAINING SidelinkUEInformationNR-r16)            OPTIONAL,
    sidelinkUEInformationEUTRA-r16   OCTET STRING                                                     OPTIONAL,
    nonCriticalExtension             CG-ConfigInfo-v1620-IEs                                          OPTIONAL
}

CG-ConfigInfo-v1620-IEs ::=             SEQUENCE {
    ueAssistanceInformationSourceSCG-r16    OCTET STRING (CONTAINING UEAssistanceInformation)         OPTIONAL,
    nonCriticalExtension                    CG-ConfigInfo-v1640-IEs                                   OPTIONAL
}

CG-ConfigInfo-v1640-IEs ::=             SEQUENCE {
    servCellInfoListMCG-NR-r16              ServCellInfoListMCG-NR-r16                   OPTIONAL,
    servCellInfoListMCG-EUTRA-r16           ServCellInfoListMCG-EUTRA-r16                OPTIONAL,
    nonCriticalExtension                    CG-ConfigInfo-v1700-IEs                      OPTIONAL
}

CG-ConfigInfo-v1700-IEs ::=             SEQUENCE {
    candidateCellListCPC-r17                CandidateCellListCPC-r17                     OPTIONAL,
    twoPHRModeMCG-r17                       ENUMERATED {enabled}                         OPTIONAL,
    lowMobilityEvaluationConnectedInPCell-r17 ENUMERATED {enabled}                       OPTIONAL,
    nonCriticalExtension                    CG-ConfigInfo-v1730-IEs                      OPTIONAL
}

CG-ConfigInfo-v1730-IEs ::=             SEQUENCE {
    fr1-Carriers-MCG-r17                    INTEGER (1..32)                              OPTIONAL,
    fr2-Carriers-MCG-r17                    INTEGER (1..32)                              OPTIONAL,
    nonCriticalExtension                    CG-ConfigInfo-v1800-IEs                      OPTIONAL
}

CG-ConfigInfo-v1800-IEs ::=             SEQUENCE {
    musim-GapConfigInfo-r18                 MUSIM-GapConfig-r17                          OPTIONAL,
    musim-CapRestrictionInfo-r18            SEQUENCE {
        musim-CapRestriction-r18                MUSIM-CapRestriction-r18                 OPTIONAL,
        musim-CandidateBandList-r18             MUSIM-CandidateBandList-r18              OPTIONAL
    }                                                                                    OPTIONAL,
    scpac-ReferenceConfiguration-r18        ReferenceConfiguration-r18                   OPTIONAL,
    subsequentCPAC-Candidates-r18           CandidateCellListCPC-r17                     OPTIONAL,
    nonCriticalExtension                    SEQUENCE {}                                  OPTIONAL
}

ServCellInfoListMCG-NR-r16 ::=          SEQUENCE (SIZE (1.. maxNrofServingCells)) OF  ServCellInfoXCG-NR-r16

ServCellInfoListMCG-EUTRA-r16 ::=       SEQUENCE (SIZE (1.. maxNrofServingCellsEUTRA)) OF ServCellInfoXCG-EUTRA-r16

SFTD-FrequencyList-NR ::=               SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxCellSFTD)) OF ARFCN-ValueNR

SFTD-FrequencyList-EUTRA ::=            SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxCellSFTD)) OF ARFCN-ValueEUTRA

ConfigRestrictInfoSCG ::=       SEQUENCE {
    allowedBC-ListMRDC              BandCombinationInfoList                                           OPTIONAL,
    powerCoordination-FR1               SEQUENCE {
        p-maxNR-FR1                     P-Max                                                         OPTIONAL,
        p-maxEUTRA                      P-Max                                                         OPTIONAL,
        p-maxUE-FR1                     P-Max                                                         OPTIONAL
    }                                                                                                 OPTIONAL,
    servCellIndexRangeSCG           SEQUENCE {
        lowBound                        ServCellIndex,
        upBound                         ServCellIndex
    }                                                                                                 OPTIONAL,   -- Cond SN-AddMod
    maxMeasFreqsSCG                     INTEGER(1..maxMeasFreqsMN)                                    OPTIONAL,
    dummy                               INTEGER(1..maxMeasIdentitiesMN)                               OPTIONAL,
    ...,
    [[
    selectedBandEntriesMNList        SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxBandComb)) OF SelectedBandEntriesMN        OPTIONAL,
    pdcch-BlindDetectionSCG          INTEGER (1..15)                                                  OPTIONAL,
    maxNumberROHC-ContextSessionsSN  INTEGER(0.. 16384)                                               OPTIONAL
    ]],
    [[
    maxIntraFreqMeasIdentitiesSCG     INTEGER(1..maxMeasIdentitiesMN)                                 OPTIONAL,
    maxInterFreqMeasIdentitiesSCG     INTEGER(1..maxMeasIdentitiesMN)                                 OPTIONAL
    ]],
    [[
    p-maxNR-FR1-MCG-r16               P-Max                                                           OPTIONAL,
    powerCoordination-FR2-r16         SEQUENCE {
        p-maxNR-FR2-MCG-r16                P-Max                                                      OPTIONAL,
        p-maxNR-FR2-SCG-r16                P-Max                                                      OPTIONAL,
        p-maxUE-FR2-r16                    P-Max                                                      OPTIONAL
    }                                                                                                 OPTIONAL,
    nrdc-PC-mode-FR1-r16    ENUMERATED {semi-static-mode1, semi-static-mode2, dynamic}                OPTIONAL,
    nrdc-PC-mode-FR2-r16    ENUMERATED {semi-static-mode1, semi-static-mode2, dynamic}                OPTIONAL,
    maxMeasSRS-ResourceSCG-r16       INTEGER(0..maxNrofCLI-SRS-Resources-r16)                         OPTIONAL,
    maxMeasCLI-ResourceSCG-r16       INTEGER(0..maxNrofCLI-RSSI-Resources-r16)                        OPTIONAL,
    maxNumberEHC-ContextsSN-r16      INTEGER(0..65536)                                                OPTIONAL,
    allowedReducedConfigForOverheating-r16      OverheatingAssistance                                 OPTIONAL,
    maxToffset-r16                   T-Offset-r16                                                     OPTIONAL
    ]],
    [[
    allowedReducedConfigForOverheating-r17      OverheatingAssistance-r17                             OPTIONAL,
    maxNumberUDC-DRB-r17             INTEGER(0..2)                                                    OPTIONAL,
    maxNumberCPCCandidates-r17       INTEGER(0..maxNrofCondCells-1-r17)                               OPTIONAL
    ]],
    [[
    allowedResourceConfigNRDC-r17    ResourceConfigNRDC-r17                                           OPTIONAL
    ]],
    [[
    allowedAggregatedBandwidthSNList-r17  AllowedAggregatedBandwidthSNList-r17                        OPTIONAL
    ]],
    [[
    maxNumberLTM-CandidatesSCG-r18   INTEGER(0..maxNrofLTM-Configs-r18)                               OPTIONAL
    ]],
    [[
    allowedL1-MeasConfigNRDC-r18     L1-MeasConfigNRDC-r18                                            OPTIONAL
    ]],
    [[
    allowedLTM-ResourceConfigNRDC-r18     LTM-ResourceConfigNRDC-r18                                  OPTIONAL
    ]]
}

SelectedBandEntriesMN ::=       SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxSimultaneousBands)) OF BandEntryIndex

BandEntryIndex ::=              INTEGER (0.. maxNrofServingCells)

PH-TypeListMCG ::=              SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxNrofServingCells)) OF PH-InfoMCG

PH-InfoMCG ::=                  SEQUENCE {
    servCellIndex                       ServCellIndex,
    ph-Uplink                           PH-UplinkCarrierMCG,
    ph-SupplementaryUplink              PH-UplinkCarrierMCG                                           OPTIONAL,
    ...,
    [[
    twoSRS-PUSCH-Repetition-r17         ENUMERATED{enabled}                                           OPTIONAL
    ]],
    [[
    twoSRS-MultipanelScheme-r18         ENUMERATED{enabled}                                           OPTIONAL
    ]]
}

PH-UplinkCarrierMCG ::=         SEQUENCE{
    ph-Type1or3                         ENUMERATED {type1, type3},
    ...
}

BandCombinationInfoList ::=     SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxBandComb)) OF BandCombinationInfo

BandCombinationInfo ::=         SEQUENCE {
    bandCombinationIndex            BandCombinationIndex,
    allowedFeatureSetsList          SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxFeatureSetsPerBand)) OF FeatureSetEntryIndex
}

FeatureSetEntryIndex ::=        INTEGER (1.. maxFeatureSetsPerBand)

DRX-Info ::=                    SEQUENCE {
    drx-LongCycleStartOffset        CHOICE {
        ms10                            INTEGER(0..9),
        ms20                            INTEGER(0..19),
        ms32                            INTEGER(0..31),
        ms40                            INTEGER(0..39),
        ms60                            INTEGER(0..59),
        ms64                            INTEGER(0..63),
        ms70                            INTEGER(0..69),
        ms80                            INTEGER(0..79),
        ms128                           INTEGER(0..127),
        ms160                           INTEGER(0..159),
        ms256                           INTEGER(0..255),
        ms320                           INTEGER(0..319),
        ms512                           INTEGER(0..511),
        ms640                           INTEGER(0..639),
        ms1024                          INTEGER(0..1023),
        ms1280                          INTEGER(0..1279),
        ms2048                          INTEGER(0..2047),
        ms2560                          INTEGER(0..2559),
        ms5120                          INTEGER(0..5119),
        ms10240                         INTEGER(0..10239)
    },
    shortDRX                            SEQUENCE {
        drx-ShortCycle                      ENUMERATED  {
                                                ms2, ms3, ms4, ms5, ms6, ms7, ms8, ms10, ms14, ms16, ms20, ms30, ms32,
                                                ms35, ms40, ms64, ms80, ms128, ms160, ms256, ms320, ms512, ms640, spare9,
                                                spare8, spare7, spare6, spare5, spare4, spare3, spare2, spare1 },
        drx-ShortCycleTimer                 INTEGER (1..16)
    }                                                                                             OPTIONAL
}

DRX-Info2 ::=          SEQUENCE {
    drx-onDurationTimer    CHOICE {
                               subMilliSeconds INTEGER (1..31),
                               milliSeconds    ENUMERATED {
                                   ms1, ms2, ms3, ms4, ms5, ms6, ms8, ms10, ms20, ms30, ms40, ms50, ms60,
                                   ms80, ms100, ms200, ms300, ms400, ms500, ms600, ms800, ms1000, ms1200,
                                   ms1600, spare8, spare7, spare6, spare5, spare4, spare3, spare2, spare1 }
                           }
}

MeasConfigMN ::= SEQUENCE {
    measuredFrequenciesMN               SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxMeasFreqsMN)) OF NR-FreqInfo        OPTIONAL,
    measGapConfig                       SetupRelease { GapConfig }                                OPTIONAL,
    gapPurpose                          ENUMERATED {perUE, perFR1}                                OPTIONAL,
    ...,
    [[
    measGapConfigFR2                    SetupRelease { GapConfig }                                OPTIONAL
    ]],
    [[
    interFreqNoGap-r16                  ENUMERATED {true}                                         OPTIONAL
    ]]
}

MRDC-AssistanceInfo ::= SEQUENCE {
    affectedCarrierFreqCombInfoListMRDC     SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxNrofCombIDC)) OF AffectedCarrierFreqCombInfoMRDC,
    ...,
    [[
    overheatingAssistanceSCG-r16            OCTET STRING (CONTAINING OverheatingAssistance)       OPTIONAL
    ]],
    [[
    overheatingAssistanceSCG-FR2-2-r17      OCTET STRING (CONTAINING OverheatingAssistance-r17)   OPTIONAL
    ]],
    [[
    affectedCarrierFreqRangeCombList-r18    AffectedCarrierFreqRangeCombList-r18                  OPTIONAL,
    affectedCarrierFreqCombList-r18         AffectedCarrierFreqCombList-r16                       OPTIONAL,
    idc-TDM-Assistance-r18                  IDC-TDM-Assistance-r18                                OPTIONAL
    ]]
}

AffectedCarrierFreqCombInfoMRDC ::= SEQUENCE {
    victimSystemType                    VictimSystemType,
    interferenceDirectionMRDC           ENUMERATED {eutra-nr, nr, other, utra-nr-other, nr-other, spare3, spare2, spare1},
    affectedCarrierFreqCombMRDC         SEQUENCE    {
        affectedCarrierFreqCombEUTRA        AffectedCarrierFreqCombEUTRA                          OPTIONAL,
        affectedCarrierFreqCombNR           AffectedCarrierFreqCombNR
    }                                                                                             OPTIONAL
}

VictimSystemType ::= SEQUENCE {
    gps                         ENUMERATED {true}               OPTIONAL,
    glonass                     ENUMERATED {true}               OPTIONAL,
    bds                         ENUMERATED {true}               OPTIONAL,
    galileo                     ENUMERATED {true}               OPTIONAL,
    wlan                        ENUMERATED {true}               OPTIONAL,
    bluetooth                   ENUMERATED {true}               OPTIONAL
}

AffectedCarrierFreqCombEUTRA ::= SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxNrofServingCellsEUTRA)) OF ARFCN-ValueEUTRA

AffectedCarrierFreqCombNR ::= SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxNrofServingCells)) OF ARFCN-ValueNR

CandidateCellListCPC-r17 ::= SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxFreq)) OF CandidateCellCPC-r17

CandidateCellCPC-r17 ::=           SEQUENCE {
    ssbFrequency-r17                   ARFCN-ValueNR,
    candidateCellList-r17              SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxNrofCondCells-r16)) OF PhysCellId
}

AllowedAggregatedBandwidthSNList-r17 ::=     SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxBandComb)) OF AllowedAggregatedBandwidth-r17

AllowedAggregatedBandwidth-r17 ::=   SEQUENCE {
    bandCombinationIndex-r17             BandCombinationIndex,
    allowedAggBW-FDD-DL-r17              SupportedAggBandwidth-r17                 OPTIONAL,
    allowedAggBW-FDD-UL-r17              SupportedAggBandwidth-r17                 OPTIONAL,
    allowedAggBW-TDD-DL-r17              SupportedAggBandwidth-r17                 OPTIONAL,
    allowedAggBW-TDD-UL-r17              SupportedAggBandwidth-r17                 OPTIONAL,
    allowedAggBW-TotalDL-r17             SupportedAggBandwidth-r17                 OPTIONAL,
    allowedAggBW-TotalUL-r17             SupportedAggBandwidth-r17                 OPTIONAL
}

-- TAG-CG-CONFIG-INFO-STOP
-- ASN1STOP









NOTE 3:	The following table indicates per MN RAT and SN RAT whether RAT capabilities are included or not in ue-CapabilityInfo.


–	MeasurementTimingConfiguration
The MeasurementTimingConfiguration message is used to convey assistance information for measurement timing and to indicate which neighbour cell SSB is CD-SSB. The other indicated SSB can be considered as the NCD-SSB in use.
Direction: en-gNB to eNB, eNB to en-gNB, gNB to gNB, ng-eNB to gNB, gNB to ng-eNB, ng-eNB to ng-eNB, gNB DU to gNB CU, and gNB CU to gNB DU.
MeasurementTimingConfiguration message
-- ASN1START
-- TAG-MEASUREMENT-TIMING-CONFIGURATION-START

MeasurementTimingConfiguration ::=      SEQUENCE {
    criticalExtensions                      CHOICE {
        c1                                      CHOICE{
            measTimingConf                          MeasurementTimingConfiguration-IEs,
            spare3 NULL, spare2 NULL, spare1 NULL
        },
        criticalExtensionsFuture        SEQUENCE {}
    }
}

MeasurementTimingConfiguration-IEs ::=  SEQUENCE {
    measTiming                              MeasTimingList                                      OPTIONAL,
    nonCriticalExtension                    MeasurementTimingConfiguration-v1550-IEs            OPTIONAL
}

MeasurementTimingConfiguration-v1550-IEs ::= SEQUENCE {
    campOnFirstSSB                               BOOLEAN,
    psCellOnlyOnFirstSSB                         BOOLEAN,
    nonCriticalExtension                         MeasurementTimingConfiguration-v1610-IEs       OPTIONAL
}

MeasurementTimingConfiguration-v1610-IEs ::=  SEQUENCE {
    csi-RS-Config-r16                             SEQUENCE {
        csi-RS-SubcarrierSpacing-r16                  SubcarrierSpacing,
        csi-RS-CellMobility-r16                       CSI-RS-CellMobility,
        refSSBFreq-r16                                ARFCN-ValueNR
    },
    nonCriticalExtension                          SEQUENCE {}                                   OPTIONAL
}

MeasTimingList ::= SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxMeasFreqsMN)) OF MeasTiming

MeasTiming ::= SEQUENCE {
    frequencyAndTiming                      SEQUENCE {
        carrierFreq                             ARFCN-ValueNR,
        ssbSubcarrierSpacing                    SubcarrierSpacing,
        ssb-MeasurementTimingConfiguration      SSB-MTC,
        ss-RSSI-Measurement                     SS-RSSI-Measurement                             OPTIONAL
    }                                                                                           OPTIONAL,
    ...,
    [[
    ssb-ToMeasure                           SSB-ToMeasure                                       OPTIONAL,
    physCellId                              PhysCellId                                          OPTIONAL
    ]]
}

-- TAG-MEASUREMENT-TIMING-CONFIGURATION-STOP
-- ASN1STOP





–	UERadioPagingInformation
This message is used to transfer radio paging information, covering both upload to and download from the 5GC, and between gNBs.
Direction: gNB to/ from 5GC and gNB to/from gNB
UERadioPagingInformation message
-- ASN1START
-- TAG-UE-RADIO-PAGING-INFORMATION-START

UERadioPagingInformation ::= SEQUENCE {
    criticalExtensions                  CHOICE {
        c1                                  CHOICE{
            ueRadioPagingInformation            UERadioPagingInformation-IEs,
            spare7 NULL,
            spare6 NULL, spare5 NULL, spare4 NULL,
            spare3 NULL, spare2 NULL, spare1 NULL
        },
        criticalExtensionsFuture            SEQUENCE {}
    }
}

UERadioPagingInformation-IEs ::=    SEQUENCE {
    supportedBandListNRForPaging        SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxBands)) OF FreqBandIndicatorNR    OPTIONAL,
    nonCriticalExtension                UERadioPagingInformation-v15e0-IEs                      OPTIONAL
}

UERadioPagingInformation-v15e0-IEs ::= SEQUENCE {
    dl-SchedulingOffset-PDSCH-TypeA-FDD-FR1     ENUMERATED {supported}          OPTIONAL,
    dl-SchedulingOffset-PDSCH-TypeA-TDD-FR1     ENUMERATED {supported}          OPTIONAL,
    dl-SchedulingOffset-PDSCH-TypeA-TDD-FR2     ENUMERATED {supported}          OPTIONAL,
    dl-SchedulingOffset-PDSCH-TypeB-FDD-FR1     ENUMERATED {supported}          OPTIONAL,
    dl-SchedulingOffset-PDSCH-TypeB-TDD-FR1     ENUMERATED {supported}          OPTIONAL,
    dl-SchedulingOffset-PDSCH-TypeB-TDD-FR2     ENUMERATED {supported}          OPTIONAL,
    nonCriticalExtension                UERadioPagingInformation-v1700-IEs          OPTIONAL
}

UERadioPagingInformation-v1700-IEs ::= SEQUENCE {
    ue-RadioPagingInfo-r17                 OCTET STRING (CONTAINING UE-RadioPagingInfo-r17)     OPTIONAL,
    inactiveStatePO-Determination-r17      ENUMERATED {supported}                               OPTIONAL,
    numberOfRxRedCap-r17                   ENUMERATED {one, two}                                OPTIONAL,
    halfDuplexFDD-TypeA-RedCap-r17         SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxBands)) OF FreqBandIndicatorNR OPTIONAL,
    nonCriticalExtension                   UERadioPagingInformation-v1800-IEs                   OPTIONAL
}

UERadioPagingInformation-v1800-IEs ::= SEQUENCE {
    numberOfRxERedCap-r18                  ENUMERATED {one, two}                                OPTIONAL,
    supportOf2RxXR-r18                     ENUMERATED {supported}                               OPTIONAL,
    nonCriticalExtension                   UERadioPagingInformation-v1840-IEs                   OPTIONAL
}

UERadioPagingInformation-v1840-IEs ::= SEQUENCE {
    dl-SchedulingOffset-PDSCH-TypeA-FDD-FR2-NTN-r18    ENUMERATED {supported}                   OPTIONAL,
    dl-SchedulingOffset-PDSCH-TypeB-FDD-FR2-NTN-r18    ENUMERATED {supported}                   OPTIONAL,
    nonCriticalExtension                               SEQUENCE {}                              OPTIONAL
}

-- TAG-UE-RADIO-PAGING-INFORMATION-STOP
-- ASN1STOP



–	UERadioAccessCapabilityInformation
This message is used to transfer UE radio access capability information, covering both upload to and download from the 5GC.
Direction: ng-eNB or gNB to/ from 5GC
UERadioAccessCapabilityInformation message
-- ASN1START
-- TAG-UE-RADIO-ACCESS-CAPABILITY-INFORMATION-START

UERadioAccessCapabilityInformation ::= SEQUENCE {
    criticalExtensions                  CHOICE {
        c1                                  CHOICE{
            ueRadioAccessCapabilityInformation    UERadioAccessCapabilityInformation-IEs,
            spare7 NULL,
            spare6 NULL, spare5 NULL, spare4 NULL,
            spare3 NULL, spare2 NULL, spare1 NULL
        },
        criticalExtensionsFuture            SEQUENCE {}
    }
}

UERadioAccessCapabilityInformation-IEs ::= SEQUENCE {
    ue-RadioAccessCapabilityInfo               OCTET STRING (CONTAINING UE-CapabilityRAT-ContainerList),
    nonCriticalExtension                       SEQUENCE {}                                                   OPTIONAL
}

-- TAG-UE-RADIO-ACCESS-CAPABILITY-INFORMATION-STOP
-- ASN1STOP



11.2.3	Mandatory information in inter-node RRC messages
For the AS-Config transferred within the HandoverPreparationInformation:
-	The source node shall include all fields necessary to reflect the current AS configuration of the UE, except for the fields sourceSCG-NR-Config, sourceSCG-EUTRA-Config and sourceRB-SN-Config, which can be omitted in case the source MN did not receive the latest configuration from the source SN. For RRCReconfiguration included in the field rrcReconfiguration, ReconfigurationWithSync is included with only the mandatory subfields (e.g. newUE-Identity and t304) and ServingCellConfigCommon;
-	Need codes or conditions specified for subfields according to IEs defined in clause 6 do not apply. I.e. some fields shall be included regardless of the "Need" or "Cond" e.g. discardTimer;
-	Based on the received AS configuration, the target node can indicate the delta (difference) to the current AS configuration (as included in HandoverCommand)to the UE. The fields newUE-Identity and t304 included in ReconfigurationWithSync are not used for delta configuration purpose.
The candidateCellInfoListSN(-EUTRA) in CG-Config and the candidateCellInfoListMN(-EUTRA)/candidateCellInfoListSN(-EUTRA) in CG-ConfigInfo need not be included in procedures that do not involve a change of node.
For fields scg-CellGroupConfig, scg-CellGroupConfigEUTRA and scg-RB-Config in CG-Config (sent upon SN initiated SN change or other conditions as specified in field descriptions) and fields mcg-RB-Config, scg-RB-Config and sourceConfigSCG in CG-ConfigInfo (sent upon change of SN):
-	The source node shall include all fields necessary to reflect the current AS configuration of the UE, unless stated otherwise in the field description. For RRCReconfiguration included in the field scg-CellGroupConfig in CG-Config, ReconfigurationWithSync is included with only the mandatory subfields (e.g. newUE-Identity and t304) and ServingCellConfigCommon;
-	Need codes or conditions specified for subfields according to IEs defined in clause 6 do not apply;
-	Based on the received AS configuration, the target node can indicate the delta (difference) as compared to the current AS configuration to the UE. The fields newUE-Identity and t304 in ReconfigurationWithSync are always included by the target node, i.e. they are not used for delta configuration purpose to UE.
For fields in CG-Config and CG-ConfigInfo listed below, absence of the field means that the receiver maintains the values informed via the previous message. Note that every time there is a change in the configuration covered by a listed field, the MN or SN shall include the field and it shall provide the full configuration provided by that field unless stated otherwise. Otherwise, if there is no change, the field can be omitted:
-	configRestrictInfo;
-	gapPurpose;
-	measGapConfig (for which delta signaling applies);
-	measGapConfigFR2 (for which delta signaling applies);
-	measResultCellListSFTD;
-	measResultSFTD-EUTRA;
-	sftdFrequencyList-EUTRA;
-	sftdFrequencyList-NR;
-	ue-CapabilityInfo;
-	servFrequenciesMN-NR;
-	musim-GapConfigInfo-r18;
-	musim-CapRestrictionInfo-r18.
For other fields in CG-Config and CG-ConfigInfo, the sender shall always signal the appropriate value even if same as indicated in the previous inter-node message, unless explicitly stated otherwise.
11.3	Inter-node RRC information element definitions
–	L1-MeasConfigNRDC
The IE L1-MeasConfigNRDC is used to indicate or request a maximum value that can be used by the SN in NR-DC to configure L1 measurement related to LTM at the SCG. Each value is equal to or lower than the value of the corresponding field in the UE capability, as reported by the UE, unless specified otherwise. The value indicated by each field is applicable to all BCs within the field allowedBC-ListMRDC.
L1-MeasConfigNRDC information element
-- ASN1START
-- TAG-L1-MEASCONFIGNRDC-START

L1-MeasConfigNRDC-r18 ::= SEQUENCE {
    maxL1-MeasNoGapSCG-r18                 INTEGER(0..maxNrofL1-MeasNoGap-r18)                               OPTIONAL,
    maxL1-MeasWithGapSCG-r18               INTEGER(0..maxNrofL1-MeasWithGap-r18)                             OPTIONAL,
    maxCellsL1-MeasNoGapSCG-r18            INTEGER(0..maxNrofCellsL1-MeasNoGap-r18)                          OPTIONAL,
    maxCellsL1-MeasWithGapSCG-r18          INTEGER(0..maxNrofCellsL1-MeasWithGap-r18)                        OPTIONAL,
    maxTotalCellsL1-MeasNoGapSCG-r18       INTEGER(0..maxNrofTotalCellsL1-MeasNoGap-r18)                     OPTIONAL,
    maxSSBsL1-MeasNoGapSCG-r18             INTEGER(0..maxNrofSSBsL1-MeasNoGap-r18)                           OPTIONAL,
    maxSSBsL1-MeasWithGapSCG-r18           INTEGER(0..maxNrofSSBsL1-MeasWithGap-r18)                         OPTIONAL,
    maxTotalSSBsL1-MeasNoGapSCG-r18        INTEGER(0..maxNrofTotalSSBsL1-MeasNoGap-r18)                      OPTIONAL,
    maxCellsL1-MeasIntraFreqSCG-r18        INTEGER(0..maxNrofSSBsL1-MeasIntraFreq-r18)                       OPTIONAL,
    maxCellsL1-MeasInterFreqSCG-r18        INTEGER(0..maxNrofSSBsL1-MeasInterFreq-r18)                       OPTIONAL,
    maxReportConfigsAperiodic-r18          INTEGER(0..maxNrofReportConfigsAperiodic-r18)                     OPTIONAL,
    maxReportConfigsPeriodic-r18           INTEGER(0..maxNrofReportConfigsPeriodic-r18)                      OPTIONAL,
    maxReportConfigsSemiPersistent-r18     INTEGER(0..maxNrofReportConfigsSemiPersistent-r18)                OPTIONAL,
    ...,
    [[
    maxSSBsL1-MeasNoGapSCGExt-r18          INTEGER(0..maxNrofSSBsL1-MeasNoGapExt-r18)                        OPTIONAL
    ]]
}

-- TAG-L1-MEASCONFIGNRDC-STOP
-- ASN1STOP



–	LTM-ResourceConfigNRDC
The IE LTM-ResourceConfigNRDC is used to indicate or request a maximum value that can be used by the SN in NR-DC to configure LTM related configuration at the SCG e.g., number of TCI states to be configured and activated, and number of LTM candidates on which to trigger the early UL synchronization. Each value is equal to or lower than the value of the corresponding field in the UE capability, as reported by the UE, unless specified otherwise. The value indicated by each field is applicable to all BCs within the field allowedBC-ListMRDC.
LTM-ResourceConfigNRDC information element
-- ASN1START
-- TAG-LTM-RESOURCECONFIGNRDC-START

LTM-ResourceConfigNRDC-r18 ::= SEQUENCE {
    maxCellsTA-Meas-r18                    INTEGER(0..maxNrofCellsTA-Meas-r18)                            OPTIONAL,
    maxConfigJointTCI-States-r18           INTEGER(0..maxNrofConfigJointTCI-States-r18)                   OPTIONAL,
    maxCellsJointTCI-r18                   INTEGER(0..maxNrofCellsTCI-r18)                                OPTIONAL,
    maxConfigDL-TCI-States-r18             INTEGER(0..maxNrofConfigDL-TCI-States-r18)                     OPTIONAL,
    maxConfigUL-TCI-States-r18             INTEGER(0..maxNrofConfigUL-TCI-States-r18)                     OPTIONAL,
    maxCellsTCI-r18                        INTEGER(0..maxNrofCellsTCI-r18)                                OPTIONAL,
    maxStoredConfigCells-r18               INTEGER(0..maxNrofStoredConfigCells-r18)                       OPTIONAL,
    maxConfigCells-r18                     INTEGER(0..maxNrofConfigCells-r18)                             OPTIONAL,
    maxActivatedJointTCI-States-r18        INTEGER(0..maxNrofActivatedJointTCI-States-r18)                OPTIONAL,
    maxActivatedDL-TCI-States-r18          INTEGER(0..maxNrofActivatedDL-TCI-States-r18)                  OPTIONAL,
    maxActivatedUL-TCI-States-r18          INTEGER(0..maxNrofActivatedUL-TCI-States-r18)                  OPTIONAL,
    ...
}

-- TAG-LTM-RSOURCECONFIGNRDC-STOP
-- ASN1STOP



–	ResourceConfigNRDC
The IE is used to indicate or request the maximum values that can be used by the SCG in NR-DC, with each value equal to or lower than the value of the corresponding field in the UE capability, as reported by the UE, unless specified otherwise.
ResourceConfigNRDC information element
-- ASN1START
-- TAG-RESOURCECONFIGNRDC-START

ResourceConfigNRDC-r17 ::= SEQUENCE {
    fr1-ResourceConfig-r17                   ResourceConfigPerFR-r17                               OPTIONAL,
    fr2-ResourceConfig-r17                   ResourceConfigPerFR-r17                               OPTIONAL,
    maxNumberResAcrossCC-AcrossFR-r17        INTEGER (0..256)                                      OPTIONAL,
    ...
}

ResourceConfigPerFR-r17 ::= SEQUENCE {
    bm-MaxNumberCSI-RS-Resource-r17          INTEGER (0..64)                                       OPTIONAL,
    bm-MaxNumberAperiodicCSI-RS-Resource-r17 INTEGER (0..64)                                       OPTIONAL,
    cg-MaxNumberConfigsAllCC-r17             INTEGER (0..32)                                       OPTIONAL,
    maxNumberCSI-RS-BFD-r17                  INTEGER (0..64)                                       OPTIONAL,
    maxNumberCSI-RS-SSB-CBD-r17              INTEGER (0..256)                                      OPTIONAL,
    maxNumberSSB-BFD-r17                     INTEGER (0..64)                                       OPTIONAL,
    sps-MaxNumberConfigsAllCC-r17            INTEGER (0..32)                                       OPTIONAL,
    trs-MaxConfResourceSetsAllCC-r17         INTEGER (0..256)                                      OPTIONAL,
    ...
}

-- TAG-RESOURCECONFIGNRDC-STOP
-- ASN1STOP





11.4	Inter-node RRC multiplicity and type constraint values
–	Multiplicity and type constraints definitions
-- ASN1START
-- TAG-NR-MULTIPLICITY-AND-CONSTRAINTS-START

maxMeasFreqsMN              INTEGER ::= 32  -- Maximum number of MN-configured measurement frequencies
maxMeasFreqsSN              INTEGER ::= 32  -- Maximum number of SN-configured measurement frequencies
maxMeasIdentitiesMN         INTEGER ::= 62  -- Maximum number of measurement identities that a UE can be configured with
maxCellPrep                 INTEGER ::= 32  -- Maximum number of cells prepared for handover
maxNrofL1-MeasNoGap-r18           INTEGER ::= 8  -- Maximum number of frequencies layers for L1 measurements UE can measure without gaps
maxNrofL1-MeasWithGap-r18         INTEGER ::= 8  -- Maximum number of frequencies layers for L1 measurements UE can measure with gaps
maxNrofCellsL1-MeasNoGap-r18      INTEGER ::= 8  -- Maximum number of neighboring cells for L1 measurements UE can measure without gaps
maxNrofCellsL1-MeasWithGap-r18    INTEGER ::= 8  -- Maximum number of neighboring cells for L1 measurements UE can measure with gaps
maxNrofTotalCellsL1-MeasNoGap-r18 INTEGER ::= 24 -- Maximum total number of cell across all frequencies layers UE can measure
maxNrofSSBsL1-MeasNoGap-r18       INTEGER ::= 8  -- Maximum number of SSB resources for L1 measurements without gaps
maxNrofSSBsL1-MeasNoGapExt-r18    INTEGER ::= 24  -- Maximum number of SSB resources for L1 measurements without gaps
maxNrofSSBsL1-MeasWithGap-r18     INTEGER ::= 8  -- Maximum number of SSB resources for L1 measurements with gaps
maxNrofTotalSSBsL1-MeasNoGap-r18  INTEGER ::= 64 -- Maximum total number of SSB resources for L1 measurements without gaps
maxNrofSSBsL1-MeasIntraFreq-r18   INTEGER ::= 8  -- Maximum number of RRC configured intra-frequency LTM candidate configurations
maxNrofSSBsL1-MeasInterFreq-r18   INTEGER ::= 8  -- Maximum number of RRC configured inter-frequency LTM candidate configurations
maxNrofReportConfigsAperiodic-r18 INTEGER ::= 4  -- Maximum number of aperiodic LTM CSI report configurations
maxNrofReportConfigsPeriodic-r18  INTEGER ::= 4  -- Maximum number of periodic LTM CSI report configurations
maxNrofReportConfigsSemiPersistent-r18  INTEGER ::= 4   -- Maximum number of semi-persistent LTM CSI report configurations
maxNrofCellsTA-Meas-r18           INTEGER ::= 8    -- Maximum number of LTM candidate cells for TA acquisition
maxNrofConfigJointTCI-States-r18  INTEGER ::= 128  -- Maximum number of joint LTM DL TCI states that can be configured
maxNrofConfigDL-TCI-States-r18    INTEGER ::= 128  -- Maximum number of separate LTM DL TCI states that can be configured
maxNrofConfigUL-TCI-States-r18    INTEGER ::= 64   -- Maximum number of separate LTM UL TCI states that can be configured
maxNrofCellsTCI-r18               INTEGER ::= 8    -- Maximum number of configured joint LTM TCI state(s) across candidate cells
maxNrofStoredConfigCells-r18      INTEGER ::= 16   -- Maximum number cells which can be stored by the UE
maxNrofConfigCells-r18            INTEGER ::= 4    -- Maximum number LTM candidate configurations on which UE can fast processing
maxNrofActivatedJointTCI-States-r18  INTEGER ::= 32  -- Maximum number of joint DL TCI states that can be activated via MAC CE
maxNrofActivatedDL-TCI-States-r18    INTEGER ::= 32  -- Maximum number of separate DL TCI states that can be activated via MAC CE
maxNrofActivatedUL-TCI-States-r18    INTEGER ::= 32  -- Maximum number of separate DL TCI states that can be activated via MAC CE

-- TAG-NR-MULTIPLICITY-AND-CONSTRAINTS-STOP
-- ASN1STOP

–	End of NR-InterNodeDefinitions
-- ASN1START
-- TAG-NR-INTER-NODE-DEFINITIONS-END-START

END

-- TAG-NR-INTER-NODE-DEFINITIONS-END-STOP
-- ASN1STOP

12	Processing delay requirements for RRC procedures
The UE performance requirements for RRC procedures are specified in the following tables. The performance requirement is expressed as the time in [ms] from the end of reception of the network -> UE message on the UE physical layer up to when the UE shall be ready for the reception of uplink grant for the UE -> network response message with no access delay other than the TTI-alignment (e.g. excluding delays caused by scheduling, the random access procedure or physical layer synchronisation). In case the RRC procedure triggers BWP switching, the RRC procedure delay is the value defined in the following table plus the BWP switching delay defined in TS 38.133 [14], clause 8.6.3.

Figure 12.1-1: Illustration of RRC procedure delay
Table 12.1-1: UE performance requirements for RRC procedures for UEs


Annex A (informative):	Guidelines mainly on use of ASN.1
A.1	Introduction
The following clauses contain guidelines for the specification of RRC protocol data units (PDUs) with ASN.1.
A.2	Procedural specification
A.2.1	General principles
The procedural specification provides an overall high level description regarding the UE behaviour in a particular scenario.
It should be noted that most of the UE behaviour associated with the reception of a particular field is covered by the applicable parts of the PDU specification. The procedural specification may also include specific details of the UE behaviour upon reception of a field, but typically this should be done only for cases that are not easy to capture in the PDU clause e.g. general actions, more complicated actions depending on the value of multiple fields.
Likewise, the procedural specification need not specify the UE requirements regarding the setting of fields within the messages that are sent to the network i.e. this may also be covered by the PDU specification.
A.2.2	More detailed aspects
The following more detailed conventions should be used:
-	Bullets:
-	Capitals should be used in the same manner as in other parts of the procedural text i.e. in most cases no capital applies since the bullets are part of the sentence starting with 'The UE shall:'
-	All bullets, including the last one in a clause, should end with a semi-colon i.e. an ';.
-	Conditions:
-	Whenever multiple conditions apply, a semi-colon should be used at the end of each conditions with the exception of the last one, i.e. as in 'if cond1, or cond2.
A.3	PDU specification
A.3.1	General principles
A.3.1.1	ASN.1 clauses
The RRC PDU contents are formally and completely described using abstract syntax notation (ASN.1), see X.680 [6], X.681 [7].
The complete ASN.1 code is divided into a number of ASN.1 clauses in the specifications. In order to facilitate the extraction of the complete ASN.1 code from the specification, each ASN.1 clause begins with the following:
-	a first text paragraph consisting entirely of an ASN.1 start tag, which consists of a double hyphen followed by a single space and the text string "ASN1START" (in all upper case letters);
-	a second text paragraph consisting entirely of a block start tag is included, which consists of a double hyphen followed by a single space and the text string "TAG-NAME-START" (in all upper case letters), where the "NAME" refers to the main name of the paragraph (in all upper-case letters).
Similarly, each ASN.1 clause ends with the following:
-	a first text paragraph consisting entirely of a blockstop tag, which consists of a double hyphen followed by a single space and the text string "TAG-NAME-STOP" (in all upper-case letters), where the "NAME" refers to the main name of the paragraph (in all upper-case letters);
-	a second text paragraph consisting entirely of an ASN.1 stop tag, which consists of a double hyphen followed by a singlespace and the text "ASN1STOP" (in all upper case letters).
This results in the following tags:
-- ASN1START
-- TAG-NAME-START

-- TAG-NAME-STOP
-- ASN1STOP

The text paragraphs containing either of the start and stop tags should not contain any ASN.1 code significant for the complete description of the RRC PDU contents. The complete ASN.1 code may be extracted by copying all the text paragraphs between an ASN.1 start tag and the following ASN.1 stop tag in the order they appear, throughout the specification.
NOTE:	A typical procedure for extraction of the complete ASN.1 code consists of a first step where the entire RRC PDU contents description (ultimately the entire specification) is saved into a plain text (ASCII) file format, followed by a second step where the actual extraction takes place, based on the occurrence of the ASN.1 start and stop tags.
A.3.1.2	ASN.1 identifier naming conventions
The naming of identifiers (i.e., the ASN.1 field and type identifiers) should be based on the following guidelines:
-	Message (PDU) identifiers should be ordinary mixed case without hyphenation. These identifiers, e.g., the RRCConnectionModificationCommand, should be used for reference in the procedure text. Abbreviations should be avoided in these identifiers and abbreviated forms of these identifiers should not be used.
-	Type identifiers other than PDU identifiers should be ordinary mixed case, with hyphenation used to set off acronyms only where an adjacent letter is a capital, e.g., EstablishmentCause, SelectedPLMN (not Selected-PLMN, since the "d" in "Selected" is lowercase), InitialUE-Identity and MeasSFN-SFN-TimeDifference.
-	Field identifiers shall start with a lowercase letter and use mixed case thereafter, e.g., establishmentCause. If a field identifier begins with an acronym (which would normally be in upper case), the entire acronym is lowercase (plmn-Identity, not pLMN-Identity). The acronym is set off with a hyphen (ue-Identity, not ueIdentity), in order to facilitate a consistent search pattern with corresponding type identifiers.
-	Identifiers should convey the meaning of the identifier and should avoid adding unnecessary postfixes (e.g. abstractions like 'Info') for the name.
-	Identifiers that are likely to be keywords of some language, especially widely used languages, such as C++ or Java, should be avoided to the extent possible.
-	Identifiers, other than PDU identifiers, longer than 25 characters should be avoided where possible. It is recommended to use abbreviations, which should be done in a consistent manner i.e. use 'Meas' instead of 'Measurement' for all occurrences. Examples of typical abbreviations are given in table A.3.1.2.1-1 below.
-	For future extension: When an extension is introduced a suffix is added to the identifier of the concerned ASN.1 field and/or type. A suffix of the form "rX" is used, with X indicating the release, for ASN.1 fields or types introduced in a later release (i.e. a release later than the original/first release of the protocol) as well as for ASN.1 fields or types for which a revision is introduced in a later release replacing a previous version, e.g., Foo-r9 for the Rel-9 version of the ASN.1 type Foo. A suffix of the form "rXb" is used for the first revision of a field that it appears in the same release (X) as the original version of the field, "rXc" for a second intra-release revision and so on. A suffix of the form "vXYZ" is used for ASN.1 fields or types that only are an extension of a corresponding earlier field or type (see clause A.4), e.g., AnElement-v10b0 for the extension of the ASN.1 type AnElement introduced in version 10.11.0 of the specification. A number 0...9, 10, 11, etc. is used to represent the first part of the version number, indicating the release of the protocol. Lower case letters a, b, c, etc. are used to represent the second (and third) part of the version number if they are greater than 9. In the procedural specification, in field descriptions as well as in headings suffices are not used, unless there is a clear need to distinguish the extension from the original field.
-	More generally, in case there is a need to distinguish different variants of an ASN.1 field or IE, a suffix should be added at the end of the identifiers e.g. MeasObjectUTRA, ConfigCommon. When there is no particular need to distinguish the fields (e.g. because the field is included in different IEs), a common field identifier name may be used. This may be attractive e.g. in case the procedural specification is the same for the different variants.
-	It should be avoided to use field identifiers with the same name within the elements of a CHOICE, including using a CHOICE inside a SEQUENCE (to avoid certain compiler errors).
Table A.3.1.2-1: Examples of typical abbreviations used in ASN.1 identifiers


NOTE:	The table A.3.1.2.1-1 is not exhaustive. Additional abbreviations may be used in ASN.1 identifiers when needed.
A.3.1.3	Text references using ASN.1 identifiers
A text reference into the RRC PDU contents description from other parts of the specification is made using the ASN.1 field identifier of the referenced type. The ASN.1 field and type identifiers used in text references should be in the italic font style. The "do not check spelling and grammar" attribute in Word should be set. Quotation marks (i.e., "") should not be used around the ASN.1 field or type identifier.
A reference to an RRC PDU should be made using the corresponding ASN.1 field identifier followed by the word "message", e.g., a reference to the RRCRelease message.
A reference to a specific part of an RRC PDU, or to a specific part of any other ASN.1 type, should be made using the corresponding ASN.1 field identifier followed by the word "field", e.g., a reference to the prioritisedBitRate field in the example below.
-- /example/ ASN1START

LogicalChannelConfig ::=            SEQUENCE {
    ul-SpecificParameters               SEQUENCE {
        priority                            Priority,
        prioritisedBitRate                  PrioritisedBitRate,
        bucketSizeDuration                  BucketSizeDuration,
        logicalChannelGroup                 INTEGER (0..3)
    }       OPTIONAL
}

-- ASN1STOP

NOTE:	All the ASN.1 start tags in the ASN.1 clauses, used as examples in this annex to the specification, are deliberately distorted, in order not to include them when the ASN.1 description of the RRC PDU contents is extracted from the specification.
A reference to a specific type of information element should be made using the corresponding ASN.1 type identifier preceded by the acronym "IE", e.g., a reference to the IE LogicalChannelConfig in the example above.
References to a specific type of information element should only be used when those are generic, i.e., without regard to the particular context wherein the specific type of information element is used. If the reference is related to a particular context, e.g., an RRC PDU type (message) wherein the information element is used, the corresponding field identifier in that context should be used in the text reference.
A reference to a specific value of an ASN.1 field should be made using the corresponding ASN.1 value without using quotation marks around the ASN.1 value, e.g., 'if the status field is set to value true'.
A.3.2	High-level message structure
Within each logical channel type, the associated RRC PDU (message) types are alternatives within a CHOICE, as shown in the example below.
-- /example/ ASN1START

DL-DCCH-Message ::= SEQUENCE {
    message                 DL-DCCH-MessageType
}

DL-DCCH-MessageType ::= CHOICE {
    c1                      CHOICE {
        dlInformationTransfer                   DLInformationTransfer,
        handoverFromEUTRAPreparationRequest     HandoverFromEUTRAPreparationRequest,
        mobilityFromEUTRACommand                MobilityFromEUTRACommand,
        rrcConnectionReconfiguration            RRCConnectionReconfiguration,
        rrcConnectionRelease                    RRCConnectionRelease,
        securityModeCommand                     SecurityModeCommand,
        ueCapabilityEnquiry                     UECapabilityEnquiry,
        spare1 NULL
    },
    messageClassExtension   SEQUENCE {}
}

-- ASN1STOP

A nested two-level CHOICE structure is used, where the alternative PDU types are alternatives within the inner level c1 CHOICE.
Spare alternatives (i.e., spare1 in this case) may be included within the c1 CHOICE to facilitate future extension. The number of such spare alternatives should not extend the total number of alternatives beyond an integer-power-of-two number of alternatives (i.e., eight in this case).
Further extension of the number of alternative PDU types is facilitated using the messageClassExtension alternative in the outer level CHOICE.
A.3.3	Message definition
Each PDU (message) type is specified in an ASN.1 clause similar to the one shown in the example below.
-- /example/ ASN1START

RRCConnectionReconfiguration ::=    SEQUENCE {
    rrc-TransactionIdentifier           RRC-TransactionIdentifier,
    criticalExtensions                  CHOICE {
        c1                                  CHOICE{
            rrcConnectionReconfiguration-r8     RRCConnectionReconfiguration-r8-IEs,
            spare3 NULL, spare2 NULL, spare1 NULL
        },
        criticalExtensionsFuture            SEQUENCE {}
    }
}

RRCConnectionReconfiguration-r8-IEs ::= SEQUENCE {
    -- Enter the IEs here.
    ...
}

-- ASN1STOP

Hooks for critical and non-critical extension should normally be included in the PDU type specification. How these hooks are used is further described in clause A.4.
Critical extensions are characterised by a redefinition of the PDU contents and need to be governed by a mechanism for protocol version agreement between the encoder and the decoder of the PDU, such that the encoder is prevented from sending a critically extended version of the PDU type, which is not comprehended by the decoder.
Critical extension of a PDU type is facilitated by a two-level CHOICE structure, where the alternative PDU contents are alternatives within the inner level c1 CHOICE. Spare alternatives (i.e., spare3 down to spare1 in this case) may be included within the c1 CHOICE. The number of spare alternatives to be included in the original PDU specification should be decided case by case, based on the expected rate of critical extension in the future releases of the protocol.
Further critical extension, when the spare alternatives from the original specifications are used up, is facilitated using the criticalExtensionsFuture in the outer level CHOICE.
In PDU types where critical extension is not expected in the future releases of the protocol, the inner level c1 CHOICE and the spare alternatives may be excluded, as shown in the example below.
-- /example/ ASN1START

RRCConnectionReconfigurationComplete ::= SEQUENCE {
    rrc-TransactionIdentifier           RRC-TransactionIdentifier,
    criticalExtensions                  CHOICE {
        rrcConnectionReconfigurationComplete-r8
                                            RRCConnectionReconfigurationComplete-r8-IEs,
        criticalExtensionsFuture            SEQUENCE {}
    }
}

RRCConnectionReconfigurationComplete-r8-IEs ::= SEQUENCE {
    -- Enter the fields here.
    ...
}

-- ASN1STOP

Non-critical extensions are characterised by the addition of new information to the original specification of the PDU type. If not comprehended, a non-critical extension may be skipped by the decoder, whilst the decoder is still able to complete the decoding of the comprehended parts of the PDU contents.
Non-critical extensions at locations other than the end of the message or other than at the end of a field contained in a BIT or OCTET STRING are facilitated by use of the ASN.1 extension marker "...". The original specification of a PDU type should normally include the extension marker at the end of the sequence of information elements contained.
Non-critical extensions at the end of the message or at the end of a field that is contained in a BIT or OCTET STRING may be facilitated by use of an empty sequence that is marked OPTIONAL e.g. as shown in the following example:
-- /example/ ASN1START

RRCMessage-r8-IEs ::=                   SEQUENCE {
    field1                                  InformationElement1,
    field2                                  InformationElement2,

    nonCriticalExtension                    SEQUENCE {}                     OPTIONAL
}

-- ASN1STOP

The ASN.1 clause specifying the contents of a PDU type may be followed by a field description table where a further description of, e.g., the semantic properties of the fields may be included. The general format of this table is shown in the example below. The field description table is absent in case there are no fields for which further description needs to be provided e.g. because the PDU does not include any fields, or because an IE is defined for each field while there is nothing specific regarding the use of this IE that needs to be specified.


The field description table has one column. The header row shall contain the ASN.1 type identifier of the PDU type.
The following rows are used to provide field descriptions. Each row shall include a first paragraph with a field identifier (in bold and italic font style) referring to the part of the PDU to which it applies. The following paragraphs at the same row may include (in regular font style), e.g., semantic description, references to other specifications and/or specification of value units, which are relevant for the particular part of the PDU.
The parts of the PDU contents that do not require a field description shall be omitted from the field description table.
A.3.4	Information elements
Each IE (information element) type is specified in an ASN.1 clause similar to the one shown in the example below.
-- /example/ ASN1START

PRACH-ConfigSIB ::=                 SEQUENCE {
    rootSequenceIndex                   INTEGER (0..1023),
    prach-ConfigInfo                    PRACH-ConfigInfo
}

PRACH-Config ::=                    SEQUENCE {
    rootSequenceIndex                   INTEGER (0..1023),
    prach-ConfigInfo                    PRACH-ConfigInfo                    OPTIONAL    -- Need N
}

PRACH-ConfigInfo ::=                SEQUENCE {
    prach-ConfigIndex                   ENUMERATED {ffs},
    highSpeedFlag                       ENUMERATED {ffs},
    zeroCorrelationZoneConfig           ENUMERATED {ffs}
}

-- ASN1STOP

IEs should be introduced whenever there are multiple fields for which the same set of values apply. IEs may also be defined for other reasons e.g. to break down a ASN.1 definition in to smaller pieces.
A group of closely related IE type definitions, like the IEs PRACH-ConfigSIB and PRACH-Config in this example, are preferably placed together in a common ASN.1 clause. The IE type identifiers should in this case have a common base, defined as the generic type identifier. It may be complemented by a suffix to distinguish the different variants. The "PRACH-Config" is the generic type identifier in this example, and the "SIB" suffix is added to distinguish the variant. The clause heading and generic references to a group of closely related IEs defined in this way should use the generic type identifier.
The same principle should apply if a new version, or an extension version, of an existing IE is created for critical or non-critical extension of the protocol (see clause A.4). The new version, or the extension version, of the IE is included in the same ASN.1 clause defining the original. A suffix is added to the type identifier, using the naming conventions defined in clause A.3.1.2, indicating the release or version of the where the new version, or extension version, was introduced.
Local IE type definitions, like the IE PRACH-ConfigInfo in the example above, may be included in the ASN.1 clause and be referenced in the other IE types defined in the same ASN.1 clause. The use of locally defined IE types should be encouraged, as a tool to break up large and complex IE type definitions. It can improve the readability of the code. There may also be a benefit for the software implementation of the protocol end-points, as these IE types are typically provided by the ASN.1 compiler as independent data elements, to be used in the software implementation.
An IE type defined in a local context, like the IE PRACH-ConfigInfo, should not be referenced directly from other ASN.1 clauses in the RRC specification. An IE type which is referenced in more than one ASN.1 clause should be defined in a separate clause, with a separate heading and a separate ASN.1 clause (possibly as one in a set of closely related IE types, like the IEs PRACH-ConfigSIB and PRACH-Config in the example above). Such IE types are also referred to as 'global IEs'.
NOTE:	Referring to an IE type, that is defined as a local IE type in the context of another ASN.1 clause, does not generate an ASN.1 compilation error. Nevertheless, using a locally defined IE type in that way makes the IE type definition difficult to find, as it would not be visible at an outline level of the specification. It should be avoided.
The ASN.1 clause specifying the contents of one or more IE types, like in the example above, may be followed by a field description table, where a further description of, e.g., the semantic properties of the fields of the information elements may be included. This table may be absent, similar as indicated in clause A.3.3 for the specification of the PDU type. The general format of the field description table is the same as shown in clause A.3.3 for the specification of the PDU type.
A.3.5	Fields with optional presence
A field with optional presence may be declared with the keyword DEFAULT. It identifies a default value to be assumed, if the sender does not include a value for that field in the encoding:
-- /example/ ASN1START

PreambleInfo ::=                    SEQUENCE {
    numberOfRA-Preambles                INTEGER (1..64)                     DEFAULT 1,
    ...
}

-- ASN1STOP

Alternatively, a field with optional presence may be declared with the keyword OPTIONAL. It identifies a field for which a value can be omitted. The omission carries semantics, which is different from any normal value of the field:
-- /example/ ASN1START

PRACH-Config ::=                    SEQUENCE {
    rootSequenceIndex                   INTEGER (0..1023),
    prach-ConfigInfo                    PRACH-ConfigInfo                    OPTIONAL    -- Need N
}

-- ASN1STOP

The semantics of an optionally present field, in the case it is omitted, should be indicated at the end of the paragraph including the keyword OPTIONAL, using a short comment text with a need code. The need code includes the keyword "Need", followed by one of the predefined semantics tags (S, M, N or R) defined in clause 6.1. If the semantics tag S is used, the semantics of the absent field are further specified either in the field description table following the ASN.1 clause, or in procedure text.
The addition of OPTIONAL keywords for capability groups is based on the following guideline. If there is more than one field in the lower level IE, then OPTIONAL keyword is added at the group level. If there is only one field in the lower level IE, OPTIONAL keyword is not added at the group level.
A.3.6	Fields with conditional presence
A field with conditional presence is declared with the keyword OPTIONAL. In addition, a short comment text shall be included at the end of the paragraph including the keyword OPTIONAL. The comment text includes the keyword "Cond", followed by a condition tag associated with the field ("UL" in this example):
-- /example/ ASN1START

LogicalChannelConfig ::=            SEQUENCE {
    ul-SpecificParameters               SEQUENCE {
        priority                            INTEGER (0),
        ...
    }       OPTIONAL                                                                    -- Cond UL
}

-- ASN1STOP

When conditionally present fields are included in an ASN.1 clause, the field description table after the ASN.1 clause shall be followed by a conditional presence table. The conditional presence table specifies the conditions for including the fields with conditional presence in the particular ASN.1 clause.


The conditional presence table has two columns. The first column (heading: "Conditional presence") contains the condition tag (in italic font style), which links the fields with a condition tag in the ASN.1 clause to an entry in the table. The second column (heading: "Explanation") contains a text specification of the conditions and requirements for the presence of the field. The second column may also include semantics, in case of an optional presence of the field, under certain conditions i.e. using the same predefined tags as defined for optional fields in A.3.5.
Conditional presence should primarily be used when presence of a field depends on the presence and/or value of other fields within the same message. If the presence of a field depends on whether another feature/function has been configured, while this function can be configured independently e.g. by another message and/or at another point in time, the relation is best reflected by means of a statement in the field description table.
If the ASN.1 clause does not include any fields with conditional presence, the conditional presence table shall not be included.
Whenever a field is only applicable in specific cases e.g. TDD, use of conditional presence should be considered.
A.3.7	Guidelines on use of lists with elements of SEQUENCE type
Where an information element has the form of a list (the SEQUENCE OF construct in ASN.1) with the type of the list elements being a SEQUENCE data type, an information element shall be defined for the list elements even if it would not otherwise be needed.
For example, a list of PLMN identities with reservation flags is defined as in the following example:
-- /example/ ASN1START

PLMN-IdentityInfoList ::=           SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..6)) OF PLMN-IdentityInfo

PLMN-IdentityInfo ::=               SEQUENCE {
    plmn-Identity                       PLMN-Identity,
    cellReservedForOperatorUse          ENUMERATED {reserved, notReserved}
}

-- ASN1STOP

rather than as in the following (bad) example, which may cause generated code to contain types with unpredictable names:
-- /bad example/ ASN1START

PLMN-IdentityList ::=                   SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..6)) OF SEQUENCE {
    plmn-Identity                           PLMN-Identity,
    cellReservedForOperatorUse              ENUMERATED {reserved, notReserved}
}

-- ASN1STOP

A.3.8	Guidelines on use of parameterised SetupRelease type
The usage of the parameterised SetupRelease type is like a function call in programming languages where the element type parameter is passed as a parameter. The parameterised type only implies a textual change in abstract syntax where all references to the parameterised type are replaced by the compiler with the release/setup choice. Two examples of the usage are shown below:
-- /example/ ASN1START

RRCMessage-rX-IEs ::= SEQUENCE {
    field-rX               SetupRelease { IE-rX }                   OPTIONAL,      --  Need M
    ...
}


RRCMessage-rX-IEs ::= SEQUENCE {
    field-rX               SetupRelease { Element-rX }
}                                                                   OPTIONAL,       -- Need M

Element-rX ::= SEQUENCE {
    field1-rX                  IE1-rX,
    field2-rX                  IE2-rX                               OPTIONAL        -- Need N
}                                                                       OPTIONAL,   -- Need M

-- /example/ ASN1STOP

The SetupRelease is always be used with only named IEs, i.e. the example below is not allowed:
-- /example/ ASN1START

RRCMessage-rX-IEs ::= SEQUENCE {
    field-rX       SetupRelease { SEQUENCE {   -- Unnamed SEQUENCEs are not allowed!
            field1-rX                  IE1-rX,
            field2-rX                  IE2-rX                         OPTIONAL        -- Need N
        }
    }                                                                     OPTIONAL,   -- Need M
}

-- /example/ ASN1STOP

Typically, a field defined using the parameterized SetupRelease type does not require procedural or field description text that refers to the setup or release values. If such a field anyway requires procedural text for specific actions, the field is referred to using the values defined for the type itself, namely, "setup" and "release". For example, procedural text for field-rX above could be as follows:
1> if field-rX is set to "setup":
2> do something;
1> else (field-rX is set to "release"):
2> release field-rX (if appropriate).
A.3.9	Guidelines on use of ToAddModList and ToReleaseList
In order to benefit from delta signalling when modifying lists with many and/or large elements, so-called add/mod- and release- lists should be used. Instead of a single list containing all elements of the list, the ASN.1 provides two lists. One list is used to convey the actual elements that are to be added to the list or modified in the list. The second list conveys only the identities (IDs) of the list elements that are to be released from the list. In other words, the ASN.1 defines only means to signal modifications to a list maintained in the receiver (typically the UE). An example is provided below:
-- /example/ ASN1START

AnExampleIE ::=         SEQUENCE {
    elementsToAddModList    SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxNrofElements)) OF Element                                     OPTIONAL,   --  Need N
    elementsToReleaseList   SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxNrofElements)) OF ElementId                                   OPTIONAL,   --  Need N
    ...
}

Element ::=             SEQUENCE {
    elementId               ElementId,
    aField                  INTEG ER (0..16777215),
    anotherField            OCTET STRING,
    ...
}

ElementId ::=           INTEGER (0..maxNrofElements-1)

maxNrofElements         INTEGER ::= 50
maxNrofElements-1       INTEGER ::= 49

-- /example/ ASN1STOP

As can be seen, the elements of the list must contain an identity (INTEGER) that identifies the elements unambiguously upon addition, modification and removal. It is recommended to define an IE for that identifier (here ElementId) so that it can be used both for a field inside the element as well as in the elementsToReleaseList.
Both lists should be made OPTIONAL and flagged as "Need N". The need code reflects that the UE does not maintain the received lists as such but rather updates its configuration using the information therein. In other words, it is not possible to provide via delta signalling an update to a previously signalled elementsToAddModList or elementsToReleaseList (which Need M would imply). The update is always in relation to the UE's internal configuration.
Note that the release of a field (a list element as well as any other field) releases all its sub-fields (sub-fields configured by elementsToAddModList and any other sub-field).
If no procedural text is provided for a set of ToAddModList and ToReleaseList, the following generic procedure applies:
The UE shall:
1>	for each ElementId in the elementsToReleaseList,:
2>	if the current UE configuration includes an Element with the given ElementId:
3>	release the Element from the current UE configuration;
1>	for each Element in the elementsToAddModList:
2>	if the current UE configuration includes an Element with the given ElementId:
3>	modify the configured Element in accordance with the received Element;
2>	else:
3>	add received Element to the UE configuration.
A.3.10	Guidelines on use of lists (without ToAddModList and ToReleaseList)
As per clause 6.1.3, when using lists without the ToAddModList and ToReleaseList structure, the contents of the lists are always replaced. To illustrate this, an example is provided below:
-- /example/ ASN1START
-- TAG_EXAMPLE_LISTS_START

AnExampleIE ::=         SEQUENCE {
    elementList             SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxNrofElements)) OF Element                                     OPTIONAL,   --  Need M
    ...,
    [[
    elementListExt-v2030    SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxNrofElementsExt)) OF Element                                  OPTIONAL,   --  Need M
    ]]
}

Element ::=         SEQUENCE {
    useFeatureX         BOOLEAN,
    aField              INTEGER (0..127)                                                                        OPTIONAL,   --  Need M
    anotherField        INTEGER (0..127)                                                                        OPTIONAL,   --  Need R
    ...
}

maxNrofElements         INTEGER ::= 8
maxNrofElements-1       INTEGER ::= 7
maxNrofElementsExt      INTEGER ::= 8
maxNrofElementsExt-1    INTEGER ::= 7

-- TAG_EXAMPLE_LISTS_STOP
-- /example/ ASN1STOP

As can be seen, the elementList list itself uses Need M, but each list entry Element contains mandatory, Need M and Need R fields. If the list is first signalled to UE with 3 entries, and subsequently again with 2 entries, UE shall retain only the latter list, i.e. the list with 2 elements will completely replace the list with 3 elements. That also means that the field aField will be treated as if it was newly created, i.e. network must include it if it wishes UE to utilize the field even if it was previously signalled. This also implies that the Need M field (aField) will be treated in the same way as the Need R field (anotherField), i.e. delta signalling is not applied and the network has to signal the field to ensure UE does not release the value (which is why Need M should not normally be used in the entries of these lists).
A.4	Extension of the PDU specifications
A.4.1	General principles to ensure compatibility
It is essential that extension of the protocol does not affect interoperability i.e. it is essential that implementations based on different versions of the RRC protocol are able to interoperate. In particular, this requirement applies for the following kind of protocol extensions:
-	Introduction of new PDU types (i.e. these should not cause unexpected behaviour or damage).
-	Introduction of additional fields in an extensible PDUs (i.e. it should be possible to ignore uncomprehended extensions without affecting the handling of the other parts of the message).
-	Introduction of additional values of an extensible field of PDUs. If used, the behaviour upon reception of an uncomprehended value should be defined.
It should be noted that the PDU extension mechanism may depend on the logical channel used to transfer the message e.g. for some PDUs an implementation may be aware of the protocol version of the peer in which case selective ignoring of extensions may not be required.
The non-critical extension mechanism is the primary mechanism for introducing protocol extensions i.e. the critical extension mechanism is used merely when there is a need to introduce a 'clean' message version. Such a need appears when the last message version includes a large number of non-critical extensions, which results in issues like readability, overhead associated with the extension markers. The critical extension mechanism may also be considered when it is complicated to accommodate the extensions by means of non-critical extension mechanisms.
A.4.2	Critical extension of messages and fields
The mechanisms to critically extend a message are defined in A.3.3. There are both "outer branch" and "inner branch" mechanisms available. The "outer branch" consists of a CHOICE having the name criticalExtensions, with two values, c1 and criticalExtensionsFuture. The criticalExtensionsFuture branch consists of an empty SEQUENCE, while the c1 branch contains the "inner branch" mechanism.
The "inner branch" structure is a CHOICE with values of the form "MessageName-rX-IEs" (e.g., "RRCConnectionReconfiguration-r8-IEs") or "spareX", with the spare values having type NULL. The "-rX-IEs" structures contain the complete structure of the message IEs for the appropriate release; i.e., the critical extension branch for the Rel-10 version of a message includes all Rel-8 and Rel-9 fields (that are not obviated in the later version), rather than containing only the additional Rel-10 fields.
The following guidelines may be used when deciding which mechanism to introduce for a particular message, i.e. only an 'outer branch', or an 'outer branch' in combination with an 'inner branch' including a certain number of spares:
-	For certain messages, e.g. initial uplink messages, messages transmitted on a broadcast channel, critical extension may not be applicable.
-	An outer branch may be sufficient for messages not including any fields.
-	The number of spares within inner branch should reflect the likelihood that the message will be critically extended in future releases (since each release with a critical extension for the message consumes one of the spare values). The estimation of the critical extension likelihood may be based on the number, size and changeability of the fields included in the message.
-	In messages where an inner branch extension mechanism is available, all spare values of the inner branch should be used before any critical extensions are added using the outer branch.
The following example illustrates the use of the critical extension mechanism by showing the ASN.1 of the original and of a later release
-- /example/ ASN1START                  -- Original release

RRCMessage ::=                          SEQUENCE {
    rrc-TransactionIdentifier               RRC-TransactionIdentifier,
    criticalExtensions                      CHOICE {
        c1                                      CHOICE{
            rrcMessage-r8                           RRCMessage-r8-IEs,
            spare3 NULL, spare2 NULL, spare1 NULL
        },
        criticalExtensionsFuture                SEQUENCE {}
    }
}

-- ASN1STOP

-- /example/ ASN1START                  -- Later release

RRCMessage ::=                          SEQUENCE {
    rrc-TransactionIdentifier               RRC-TransactionIdentifier,
    criticalExtensions                          CHOICE {
        c1                                          CHOICE{
            rrcMessage-r8                               RRCMessage-r8-IEs,
            rrcMessage-r10                              RRCMessage-r10-IEs,
            rrcMessage-r11                              RRCMessage-r11-IEs,
            rrcMessage-r14                              RRCMessage-r14-IEs
        },
        later                                      CHOICE {
            c2                                         CHOICE{
                rrcMessage-r16                             RRCMessage-r16-IEs,
                spare7 NULL, spare6 NULL, spare5 NULL, spare4 NULL,
                spare3 NULL, spare2 NULL, spare1 NULL
            },
            criticalExtensionsFuture                SEQUENCE {}
        }
    }
}

-- ASN1STOP

It is important to note that critical extensions may also be used at the level of individual fields i.e. a field may be replaced by a critically extended version. When sending the extended version, the original version may also be included (e.g. original field is mandatory, E-UTRAN is unaware if UE supports the extended version). In such cases, a UE supporting both versions may be required to ignore the original field. The following example illustrates the use of the critical extension mechanism by showing the ASN.1 of the original and of a later release.
-- /example/ ASN1START                  -- Original release

RRCMessage ::=                          SEQUENCE {
    rrc-TransactionIdentifier               RRC-TransactionIdentifier,
    criticalExtensions                      CHOICE {
        c1                                      CHOICE{
            rrcMessage-r8                           RRCMessage-r8-IEs,
            spare3 NULL, spare2 NULL, spare1 NULL
        },
        criticalExtensionsFuture            SEQUENCE {}
    }
}

RRCMessage-rN-IEs ::= SEQUENCE {
    field1-rN                           ENUMERATED {
                                            value1, value2, value3, value4}     OPTIONAL,   -- Need N
    field2-rN                           InformationElement2-rN                  OPTIONAL,   -- Need N
    nonCriticalExtension                RRCConnectionReconfiguration-vMxy-IEs   OPTIONAL
}

RRCConnectionReconfiguration-vMxy-IEs ::= SEQUENCE {
    field2-rM                                 InformationElement2-rM            OPTIONAL, -- Cond NoField2rN
    nonCriticalExtension                      SEQUENCE {}                       OPTIONAL
}

-- ASN1STOP



Finally, it is noted that a critical extension may be introduced in the same release as the one in which the original field was introduced e.g. to correct an essential ASN.1 error. In such cases a UE capability may be introduced, to assist the network in deciding whether or not to use the critical extension.
In the case of list fields (SEQUENCE OF types in ASN.1) using the ToAddMod/ToRelease construction, the use of critical extensions to increase the size of a list should be avoided; that is, replacing the original list field by a new field also used to signal entries previously covered by the original field (i.e. extensions done according to the following example) should be avoided:
-- /example/ ASN1START                  -- Discouraged example

ContainingStructure ::=                 SEQUENCE {
    listElementToAddModList                 SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxNrofListElements)) OF ListElement         OPTIONAL,    -- Need N
    ...,
    [[
    listElementToAddModList-rN              SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxNrofListElements-rN)) OF ListElement      OPTIONAL     -- Need N
    ]]
}-- ASN1STOP

Instead, a non-critical list extension mechanism should typically be used, such that the extension field only adds the new entries of the list.  This approach is further described in clause A.4.3.6.
If the critical extension mechanism for a list is used, it should be clarified in the field description that the two versions of the list are not configured together, and that the network should release the contents of the original version when configuring the replacement version.
A.4.3	Non-critical extension of messages
A.4.3.1	General principles
The mechanisms to extend a message in a non-critical manner are defined in A.3.3. W.r.t. the use of extension markers, the following additional guidelines apply:
-	When further non-critical extensions are added to a message that has been critically extended, the inclusion of these non-critical extensions in earlier critical branches of the message should be avoided when possible.
-	The extension marker ("...") is the primary non-critical extension mechanism that is used but empty sequences may be used if length determinant is not required. Examples of cases where a length determinant is not required:
-	at the end of a message;
-	at the end of a structure contained in a BIT STRING or OCTET STRING.
-	When an extension marker is available, non-critical extensions are preferably placed at the location (e.g. the IE) where the concerned parameter belongs from a logical/ functional perspective (referred to as the 'default extension location').
-	It is desirable to aggregate extensions of the same release or version of the specification into a group, which should be placed at the lowest possible level.
-	In specific cases it may be preferable to place extensions elsewhere (referred to as the 'actual extension location') e.g. when it is possible to aggregate several extensions in a group. In such a case, the group should be placed at the lowest suitable level in the message.
-	In case placement at the default extension location affects earlier critical branches of the message, locating the extension at a following higher level in the message should be considered.
-	In case an extension is not placed at the default extension location, an IE should be defined. The IE's ASN.1 definition should be placed in the same ASN.1 clause as the default extension location. In case there are intermediate levels in-between the actual and the default extension location, an IE may be defined for each level. Intermediate levels are primarily introduced for readability and overview. Hence intermediate levels need not always be introduced e.g. they may not be needed when the default and the actual extension location are within the same ASN.1 clause.
A.4.3.2	Further guidelines
Further to the general principles defined in the previous clause, the following additional guidelines apply regarding the use of extension markers:
-	Extension markers within SEQUENCE:
-	Extension markers are primarily, but not exclusively, introduced at the higher nesting levels.
-	Extension markers are introduced for a SEQUENCE comprising several fields as well as for information elements whose extension would result in complex structures without it (e.g. re-introducing another list).
-	Extension markers are introduced to make it possible to maintain important information structures e.g. parameters relevant for one particular RAT.
-	Extension markers are also used for size critical messages (i.e. messages on BCCH, BR-BCCH, PCCH and CCCH), although introduced somewhat more carefully.
-	The extension fields introduced (or frozen) in a specific version of the specification are grouped together using double brackets.
-	Extension markers within ENUMERATED:
-	Spare values may be used until the number of values reaches the next power of 2, while the extension marker caters for extension beyond that limit, given that the use of spare values in a later Release is possible without any error cases.
-	A suffix of the form "vXYZ" is used for the identifier of each new value, e.g. "value-vXYZ".
-	Extension markers within CHOICE:
-	Extension markers are introduced when extension is foreseen and when comprehension is not required by the receiver i.e. behaviour is defined for the case where the receiver cannot comprehend the extended value (e.g. ignoring an optional CHOICE field). It should be noted that defining the behaviour of a receiver upon receiving a not comprehended choice value is not required if the sender is aware whether or not the receiver supports the extended value.
-	A suffix of the form "vXYZ" is used for the identifier of each new choice value, e.g. "choice-vXYZ".
Non-critical extensions at the end of a message/ of a field contained in an OCTET or BIT STRING:
-	When a nonCriticalExtension is actually used, a "Need" code should not be provided for the field, which always is a group including at least one extension and a field facilitating further possible extensions. For simplicity, it is recommended not to provide a "Need" code when the field is not actually used either.
Further, more general, guidelines:
-	In case a need code is not provided for a group, a "Need" code is provided for all individual extension fields within the group i.e. including for fields that are not marked as OPTIONAL. The latter is to clarify the action upon absence of the whole group.
A.4.3.3	Typical example of evolution of IE with local extensions
The following example illustrates the use of the extension marker for a number of elementary cases (sequence, enumerated, choice). The example also illustrates how the IE may be revised in case the critical extension mechanism is used.
NOTE	In case there is a need to support further extensions of release n while the ASN.1 of release (n+1) has been frozen, without requiring the release n receiver to support decoding of release (n+1) extensions, more advanced mechanisms are needed e.g. including multiple extension markers.
-- /example/ ASN1START

InformationElement1 ::=             SEQUENCE {
    field1                              ENUMERATED {
                                            value1, value2, value3, value4-v880,
                                            ..., value5-v960 },
    field2                              CHOICE {
        field2a                             BOOLEAN,
        field2b                             InformationElement2b,
        ...,
        field2c-v960                        InformationElement2c-r9
    },
    ...,
    [[
    field3-r9                           InformationElement3-r9      OPTIONAL        -- Need R
    ]],
    [[
    field3-v9a0                         InformationElement3-v9a0    OPTIONAL,       -- Need R
    field4-r9                           InformationElement4         OPTIONAL        -- Need R
    ]]
}

InformationElement1-r10 ::=         SEQUENCE {
    field1                              ENUMERATED {
                                            value1, value2, value3, value4-v880,
                                            value5-v960, value6-v1170, spare2, spare1, ... },
    field2                              CHOICE {
        field2a                             BOOLEAN,
        field2b                             InformationElement2b,
        field2c-v960                        InformationElement2c-r9,
        ...,
        field2d-v12b0                       INTEGER (0..63)
    },
    field3-r9                           InformationElement3-r10         OPTIONAL,   -- Need R
    field4-r9                           InformationElement4             OPTIONAL,   -- Need R
    field5-r10                          BOOLEAN,
    field6-r10                          InformationElement6-r10         OPTIONAL,   -- Need R
    ...,
    [[
    field3-v1170                        InformationElement3-v1170       OPTIONAL    -- Need R
    ]]
}

-- ASN1STOP

Some remarks regarding the extensions of InformationElement1 as shown in the above example:
–	The InformationElement1 is initially extended with a number of non-critical extensions. In release 10 however, a critical extension is introduced for the message using this IE. Consequently, a new version of the IE InformationElement1 (i.e. InformationElement1-r10) is defined in which the earlier non-critical extensions are incorporated by means of a revision of the original field.
–	The value4-v880 is replacing a spare value defined in the original protocol version for field1. Likewise value6-v1170 replaces spare3 that was originally defined in the r10 version of field1.
–	Within the critically extended release 10 version of InformationElement1, the names of the original fields/IEs are not changed, unless there is a real need to distinguish them from other fields/IEs. E.g. the field1 and InformationElement4 were defined in the original protocol version (release 8) and hence not tagged. Moreover, the field3-r9 is introduced in release 9 and not re-tagged; although, the InformationElement3 is also critically extended and therefore tagged InformationElement3-r10 in the release 10 version of InformationElement1.
A.4.3.4	Typical examples of non critical extension at the end of a message
The following example illustrates the use of non-critical extensions at the end of the message or at the end of a field that is contained in a BIT or OCTET STRING i.e. when an empty sequence is used.
-- /example/ ASN1START

RRCMessage-r8-IEs ::=           SEQUENCE {
    field1                          InformationElement1,
    field2                          InformationElement2,
    field3                          InformationElement3                 OPTIONAL,   -- Need N
    nonCriticalExtension            RRCMessage-v860-IEs                 OPTIONAL
}

RRCMessage-v860-IEs ::=         SEQUENCE {
    field4-v860                     InformationElement4                 OPTIONAL,   -- Need S
    field5-v860                     BOOLEAN                             OPTIONAL,   -- Cond C54
    nonCriticalExtension            RRCMessage-v940-IEs                 OPTIONAL
}

RRCMessage-v940-IEs ::=         SEQUENCE {
    field6-v940                     InformationElement6-r9              OPTIONAL,   -- Need R
    nonCriticalExtensions           SEQUENCE {}                         OPTIONAL
}

-- ASN1STOP

Some remarks regarding the extensions shown in the above example:
–	The InformationElement4 is introduced in the original version of the protocol (release 8) and hence no suffix is used.
A.4.3.5	Examples of non-critical extensions not placed at the default extension location
The following example illustrates the use of non-critical extensions in case an extension is not placed at the default extension location.
–	ParentIE-WithEM
The IE ParentIE-WithEMis an example of a high level IE including the extension marker (EM). The root encoding of this IE includes two lower level IEs ChildIE1-WithoutEM and ChildIE2-WithoutEM which not include the extension marker. Consequently, non-critical extensions of the Child-IEs have to be included at the level of the Parent-IE.
The example illustrates how the two extension IEs ChildIE1-WithoutEM-vNx0 and ChildIE2-WithoutEM-vNx0 (both in release N) are used to connect non-critical extensions with a default extension location in the lower level IEs to the actual extension location in this IE.
ParentIE-WithEM information element
-- /example/ ASN1START

ParentIE-WithEM ::=                 SEQUENCE {
    -- Root encoding, including:
    childIE1-WithoutEM                  ChildIE1-WithoutEM              OPTIONAL,       -- Need N
    childIE2-WithoutEM                  ChildIE2-WithoutEM              OPTIONAL,       -- Need N
    ...,
    [[
    childIE1-WithoutEM-vNx0             ChildIE1-WithoutEM-vNx0     OPTIONAL,       -- Need N
    childIE2-WithoutEM-vNx0             ChildIE2-WithoutEM-vNx0     OPTIONAL        -- Need N
    ]]
}

-- ASN1STOP

Some remarks regarding the extensions shown in the above example:
–	The fields childIEx-WithoutEM-vNx0 may not really need to be optional (depends on what is defined at the next lower level).
–	In general, especially when there are several nesting levels, fields should be marked as optional only when there is a clear reason.
–	ChildIE1-WithoutEM
The IE ChildIE1-WithoutEM is an example of a lower level IE, used to control certain radio configurations including a configurable feature which can be setup or released using the local IE ChIE1-ConfigurableFeature. The example illustrates how the new field chIE1-NewField is added in release N to the configuration of the configurable feature. The example is based on the following assumptions:
–	When initially configuring as well as when modifying the new field, the original fields of the configurable feature have to be provided also i.e. as if the extended ones were present within the setup branch of this feature.
–	When the configurable feature is released, the new field should be released also.
–	When omitting the original fields of the configurable feature the UE continues using the existing values (which is used to optimise the signalling for features that typically continue unchanged upon handover).
–	When omitting the new field of the configurable feature the UE releases the existing values and discontinues the associated functionality (which may be used to support release of unsupported functionality upon handover to an eNB supporting an earlier protocol version).
The above assumptions, which affect the use of conditions and need codes, may not always apply. Hence, the example should not be re-used blindly.
ChildIE1-WithoutEM information element
-- /example/ ASN1START

ChildIE1-WithoutEM ::=              SEQUENCE {
    -- Root encoding, including:
    chIE1-ConfigurableFeature           ChIE1-ConfigurableFeature       OPTIONAL        -- Need N
}

ChildIE1-WithoutEM-vNx0 ::=     SEQUENCE {
    chIE1-ConfigurableFeature-vNx0      ChIE1-ConfigurableFeature-vNx0  OPTIONAL    -- Cond ConfigF
}

ChIE1-ConfigurableFeature ::=       CHOICE {
    release                             NULL,
    setup                               SEQUENCE {
        -- Root encoding
    }
}

ChIE1-ConfigurableFeature-vNx0 ::=  SEQUENCE {
    chIE1-NewField-rN                   INTEGER (0..31)
}

-- ASN1STOP



–	ChildIE2-WithoutEM
The IE ChildIE2-WithoutEM is an example of a lower level IE, typically used to control certain radio configurations. The example illustrates how the new field chIE1-NewField is added in release N to the configuration of the configurable feature.
ChildIE2-WithoutEM information element
-- /example/ ASN1START

ChildIE2-WithoutEM ::=              CHOICE {
    release                             NULL,
    setup                               SEQUENCE {
        -- Root encoding
    }
}

ChildIE2-WithoutEM-vNx0 ::=         SEQUENCE {
    chIE2-NewField-rN                   INTEGER (0..31)                 OPTIONAL    -- Cond ConfigF
}

-- ASN1STOP



A.4.3.6	Non-critical extensions of lists with ToAddMod/ToRelease
When the size of a list using the ToAddMod/ToRelease construction is extended and/or fields are added to the list element structure, the list should be non-critically extended in accordance with the following general principles:
–	When only the size of the list is extended, this extension is reflected in a non-critical extension of the list, with a "SizeExt" suffix added to the end of the field name (before the -vNxy suffix). The differential size of the extended list uses the suffix "Diff". A new ToRelease list is needed, and its range should include only the increase in list size. In many cases, extending the list size will also require an extended list element ID type to account for the increased size of the list; in these cases the element type will need to be extended to include the extended element ID, resulting in a more complex extension (see example 3 for further discussion of this case). The field description table should indicate that the UE considers the original list and the extension list as a single list; thus entries added with the original list can be modified by the extension list (or removed by the extension of the ToRelease list), or vice versa. The result is as shown in the following example:

-- /example 1/ ASN1START

ContainingStructure ::=             SEQUENCE {
    listElementToAddModList              SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxNrofListElements)) OF ListElement             OPTIONAL,    -- Need N
    listElementToReleaseList             SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxNrofListElements)) OF ListElementId           OPTIONAL,    -- Need N
    ...,
    [[
    -- Non-critical extension lists
    listElementToAddModListSizeExt-vNxy  SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxNrofListElementsDiff-rN)) OF ListElement      OPTIONAL,    -- Need N
    listElementToReleaseListSizeExt-vNxy SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxNrofListElementsDiff-rN)) OF ListElementId    OPTIONAL     -- Need N
    ]]
}
-- ASN1STOP

–	When fields are added to the list element structure, an extension marker should normally be used if available. If no extension marker is available or if overhead or other considerations prevent using the extension marker, an extension structure should be created for the new fields, with the suffix "Ext" added to the end of the field name and the element structure type name (before the -vNxy suffix), and a parallel ToAddMod list introduced to hold the new structures, also with the "Ext" suffix. The field description table should indicate that the parallel list contains the same number of entries, and in the same order, as the original list. No new ToRelease list is typically needed (unless the list element ID type changes). It should typically be ensured that the contained fields in the "Ext" elements are releasable without release and add of the entire list element; this can, for instance, be ensured by having the new fields be OPTIONAL Need R. If multiple extensions of the same list are needed, the version suffix should distinguish the lists (e.g. listElementToAddModListExt-vNwz added after listElementToAddModListExt-vNxy). The result is as shown in the following example:
-- /example 2/ ASN1START

ContainingStructure ::=             SEQUENCE {
    listElementToAddModList             SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxNrofListElements)) OF ListElement             OPTIONAL,    -- Need N
    listElementToReleaseList            SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxNrofListElements)) OF ListElementId           OPTIONAL,    -- Need N
    ...,
    [[
    -- Parallel list
    listElementToAddModListExt-vNxy     SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxNrofListElements)) OF ListElementExt-vNxy     OPTIONAL     -- Need N
    ]],
	[[
	-- Second parallel list from a later spec version
	listElementToAddModListExt-vNwz		SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxNrofListElements)) OF ListElementExt-vNwz     OPTIONAL    -- Need N
	]]
}

ListElement ::=                      SEQUENCE {
    elementId                            ListElementId,
    field1                               INTEGER (0..3),
    field2                               ENUMERATED { value1, value2, value3 }
}

ListElementExt-vNxy ::=              SEQUENCE {
    field3-rN                            BIT STRING (SIZE (8))                                              OPTIONAL     -- Need R
}

ListElementExt-vNwz ::=              SEQUENCE {
    field4-rN                            INTEGER (0..255)                                                   OPTIONAL     -- Need R
}
-- ASN1STOP

–	When the size of a list is extended and fields are added to the list element structure, an extension marker should normally be used for the added fields if available, and the list extended with the non-critical mechanism as described in example 1 above. Note that if the list element ID type changes in this case, the new ID can be added after the extension marker, and the entries of the size-extended ToRelease list should have the type of the new ID (e.g. ListElementId-vNxy). If no extension marker is available or if overhead or other considerations prevent using the extension marker, an extension structure should be created for the new fields and a parallel list with ToAddMod introduced to hold the extension structures, as in the second example above, for entries of the original list and for entries of the extension list holding new entries. The field description table should indicate that the parallel list contains the same number of entries, and in the same order, as the concatenation of the original list and the extension list. An extended ToRelease list is needed, but no additional parallel ToRelease list is needed (i.e. there is no listElementToReleaseListExt-vNxy in the example below), as the original and extended ToRelease lists suffice to release any element of the combined list. The extended element ID type should be captured as a non-critical extension of the original element ID type, with the field description indicating that if the extended ID is present, the original ID is ignored. The result is as shown in the following example:
-- /example 3/ ASN1START

ContainingStructure ::=             SEQUENCE {
    listElementToAddModList               SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxNrofListElements)) OF ListElement                 OPTIONAL,    -- Need N
    listElementToReleaseList              SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxNrofListElements)) OF ListElementId               OPTIONAL,    -- Need N
    ...,
    [[
    -- Non-critical extension lists
    listElementToAddModListSizeExt-vNxy  SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxNrofListElementsDiff-rN)) OF ListElement           OPTIONAL,    -- Need N
    listElementToReleaseListSizeExt-vNxy SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxNrofListElementsDiff-rN)) OF ListElementId-vNxy    OPTIONAL,    -- Need N
    -- Parallel list with maxNrofListElements-rN = maxNrofListElements + maxNrofListElementsDiff-rN
    listElementToAddModListExt-vNxy      SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxNrofListElements-rN)) OF ListElementExt-vNxy       OPTIONAL     -- Need N
    ]]
}

ListElement ::=                      SEQUENCE {
    elementId                            ListElementId,
    field1                               INTEGER (0..3),
    field2                               ENUMERATED { value1, value2, value3 }
}

ListElementExt-vNxy ::=              SEQUENCE {
    -- Field description should indicate that if the elementId-vNxy is present, the elementId (without suffix) is ignored
    elementId-vNxy                       ListElementId-vNxy                                                 OPTIONAL,    -- Need S
    field3-rN                            BIT STRING (SIZE (8))                                              OPTIONAL     -- Need R
}

ListElementId ::= INTEGER (0..maxNrofListElements-1)

ListElementId-vNxy ::= INTEGER (maxNrofListElements..maxNrofListElements-1-rN)
-- ASN1STOP

–	When different extensions are made to a list in separate releases, the extension mechanisms described above may interact. In case fields are added in Rel-M (listElementToAddModListExt-vMxy) and later the list size is extended in Rel-N (listElementToAddModListSizeExt-vNwz), the size-extended list in Rel-N should be a single list extending the combination of listElementToAddModList and listElementToAddModListExt-vMxy. This requires creating a new type (ListElement-rN) to contain the combined fields of ListElement and ListElementExt-vMxy. A corresponding ToRelease list is needed. The result is as shown in the following example:
-- /example 4/ ASN1START

ContainingStructure ::=             SEQUENCE {
    listElementToAddModList              SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxNrofListElements)) OF ListElement             OPTIONAL,    -- Need N
    listElementToReleaseList             SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxNrofListElements)) OF ListElementId           OPTIONAL,    -- Need N
    ...,
    [[
    -- Parallel list (Rel-M)
    listElementToAddModListExt-vMxy      SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxNrofListElements)) OF ListElementExt-vMxy     OPTIONAL     -- Need N
    ]],
	[[
	-- Size-extended list (Rel-N) with maxNrofListElements-rN = maxNrofListElements + maxNrofListElementsDiff-rN
	listElementToAddModListSizeExt-vNwz  SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxNrofListElementsDiff-rN)) OF ListElement-rN   OPTIONAL,    -- Need N
    listElementToReleaseListSizeExt-vNwz SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxNrofListElementsDiff-rN)) OF ListElementId-vNwz     OPTIONAL    -- Need N
	]]
}

ListElement ::=                      SEQUENCE {
    elementId                            ListElementId,
    field1                               INTEGER (0..3),
    field2                               ENUMERATED { value1, value2, value3 }
}

ListElementExt-vMxy ::=              SEQUENCE {
    field3-rM                            BIT STRING (SIZE (8))                                              OPTIONAL     -- Need R
}

ListElement-rN ::=                   SEQUENCE {
    elementId-vNwz                       ListElementId-vNwz,
    field1                               INTEGER (0..3),
    field2                               ENUMERATED { value1, value2, value3 },
    field3-rN                            BIT STRING (SIZE (8))                                              OPTIONAL     -- Need R
}

ListElementId ::= INTEGER (0..maxNrofListElements-1)

ListElementId-vNwz ::= INTEGER (maxNrofListElements..maxNrofListElementsDiff-1-rN)
-- ASN1STOP

A.5	Guidelines regarding inclusion of transaction identifiers in RRC messages
The following rules provide guidance on which messages should include a Transaction identifier
1:	DL messages on CCCH that move UE to RRC-Idle should not include the RRC transaction identifier.
2:	All network initiated DL messages by default should include the RRC transaction identifier.
3:	All UL messages that are direct response to a DL message with an RRC Transaction identifier should include the RRC Transaction identifier.
4:	All UL messages that require a direct DL response message should include an RRC transaction identifier.
5:	All UL messages that are not in response to a DL message nor require a corresponding response from the network should not include the RRC Transaction identifier.
A.6	Guidelines regarding use of need codes
The following rule provides guidance for determining need codes for optional downlink fields:
- if the field needs to be stored by the UE (i.e. maintained) when absent:
- use Need M (=Maintain);
- else, if the field needs to be released by the UE when absent:
- use Need R (=Release);
- else, if UE shall take no action when the field is absent (i.e. UE does not even need to maintain any existing value of the field):
- use Need N (=None);
- else (UE behaviour upon absence does not fit any of the above conditions):
- use Need S (=Specified);
- specify the UE behaviour upon absence of the field in the procedural text or in the field description table.
A.7	Guidelines regarding use of conditions
Conditions are primarily used to specify network restrictions, for which the following types can be distinguished:
-	Message Contents related constraints e.g. that a field B is mandatory present if the same message includes field A and when it is set value X.
-	Configuration Constraints e.g. that a field D can only be signalled if field C is configured and set to value Y. (i.e. regardless of whether field C is present in the same message or previously configured).
The use of these conditions is illustrated by an example.
-- /example/ ASN1START

RRCMessage-IEs ::= SEQUENCE {
    fieldA                          FieldA                  OPTIONAL,   -- Need M
    fieldB                          FieldB                  OPTIONAL,   -- Cond FieldAsetToX
    fieldC                          FieldC                  OPTIONAL,   -- Need M
    fieldD                          FieldD                  OPTIONAL,   -- Cond FieldCsetToY
    nonCriticalExtension            SEQUENCE {}             OPTIONAL
}

-- /example/ ASN1STOP



A.8	Miscellaneous
The following miscellaneous convention should be used:
-	UE capabilities: TS 38.306 [26] specifies that the network should in general respect the UE's capabilities. Hence there is no need to include statement clarifying that the network, when setting the value of a certain configuration field, shall respect the related UE capabilities unless there is a particular need e.g. particularly complicated cases.
-	UE capabilities: If a UE capability for a feature requires at least FR1/FR2 or at least FDD/TDD differentiation, it is defined in per band signaling (under BandNR in RF-Parameters) in the ASN.1, i.e. no new UE capabilities is defined in the FR1/FR2 and FDD/TDD differentiation capability signaling branches.
Annex B (informative):	RRC Information
B.1	Protection of RRC messages
The following list provides information which messages can be sent (unprotected) prior to AS security activation and which messages can be sent unprotected after AS security activation. Those messages indicated "-" in "P" column should never be sent unprotected by gNB or UE. Further requirements are defined in the procedural text.
P…Messages that can be sent (unprotected) prior to AS security activation
A – I…Messages that can be sent without integrity protection after AS security activation
A – C…Messages that can be sent unciphered after AS security activation
NA… Message can never be sent after AS security activation


B.2	Description of BWP configuration options
There are two possible ways to configure BWP#0 (i.e. the initial BWP) for a UE:
1)	Configure BWP-DownlinkCommon and BWP-UplinkCommon in ServingCellConfigCommon, but do not configure dedicated configurations in BWP-DownlinkDedicated or BWP-UplinkDedicated in ServingCellConfig.
2)	Configure both BWP-DownlinkCommon and BWP-UplinkCommon in ServingCellConfigCommon and configure dedicated configurations in at least one of BWP-DownlinkDedicated or BWP-UplinkDedicated in ServingCellConfig.
The same way of configuration is used for UL BWP#0 and DL BWP#0 if both are configured.
With the first option (illustrated by figure B2-1 below), the BWP#0 is not considered to be an RRC-configured BWP, i.e., UE only supporting one BWP can still be configured with BWP#1 in addition to BWP#0 when using this configuration. The BWP#0 can still be used even if it does not have the dedicated configuration, albeit in a more limited manner since only the SIB1-defined configurations are available. For example, only DCI format 1_0 can be used with BWP#0 without dedicated configuration, so changing to another BWP requires RRCReconfiguration since DCI format 1_0 doesn't support DCI-based switching.

Figure B2-1: BWP#0 configuration without dedicated configuration
With the second option (illustrated by figure B2-2 below), the BWP#0 is considered to be an RRC-configured BWP, i.e. UE only supporting one BWP cannot be configured with BWP#1 in addition to BWP#0 when using this configuration. However, UE supporting more than one BWP can still switch to and from BWP#0 e.g. via DCI normally, and there are no explicit limitations to using the BWP#0 (compared to the first option).

Figure B2-2: BWP#0 configuration with dedicated configuration
For BWP#0, the BWP-DownlinkCommon and BWP-UplinkCommon in ServingCellConfigCommon should match the parameters configured by MIB and SIB1 (if provided) in the corresponding serving cell.
If an RedCap-specific initial DL BWP is configured, for BWP switching, the BWP #0 always maps to the RedCap-specific initial DL BWP. If a RedCap-specific initial UL BWP is configured, for BWP switching on NUL, the BWP #0 always maps to the RedCap-specific initial UL BWP, for BWP switching on SUL, the BWP#0 always maps to the initial UL BWP.
Annex C (normative):	List of CRs Containing Early Implementable Features and Corrections
This annex lists the Change Requests (CRs) whose changes may be implemented by a UE of an earlier release than which the CR was approved in (i.e. CRs that contain on their coversheets the sentence "Implementation of this CR from Rel-N will not cause interoperability issues").
Table C-1: List of CRs Containing Early Implementable Features and Corrections


Annex D (normative):	UE requirements on ASN.1 comprehension
This clause specifies UE requirements regarding the ASN.1 transfer syntax support, i.e. the ASN.1 definitions to be comprehended by the UE.
A UE that indicates release X in field accessStratumRelease shall comprehend the entire transfer syntax (ASN.1) of release X, in particular at least the first version upon ASN.1 freeze. The UE is however not required to support dedicated signalling related transfer syntax associated with optional features it does not support.
In case a UE that indicates release X in field accessStratumRelease supports a feature specified in release Y, which is later than release X, (i.e. early UE implementation) additional requirements apply. The UE obviously also has to support the ASN.1 parts related to indicating support of the feature (in UE capabilities).
Critical extensions (dedicated signaling)
If the early implemented feature involves one or more critical extensions in dedicated signalling, the UE shall comprehend the parts of the transfer syntax (ASN.1) of release Y that are related to the feature implemented early. This, in particular, concerns the ASN.1 parts related to configuration of the feature.
If configuration of an early implemented feature introduced in release Y involves a message or field that has been critically extended, the UE shall support configuration of all features supported by the UE that are associated with sub-fields of this critical extension. Apart from the early implemented feature(s), the UE needs, however, not to support functionality beyond what is defined in the release the UE indicates in access stratum release.
Let's consider the example of a UE indicating value X in field accessStratumRelease that supports the features A1, A3, and A5, associated with fields fieldA1, fieldA3 and fieldA5 of InformationElementA (see ASN.1 below).
The feature A5 implemented early is associated with fieldA5, and can only be configured by the –rY version of InformationElementA. In such case, the UE should support configuration of all the features A1, A3 and A5 associated with fields fieldA1, fieldA3 and fieldA5 by the –rY version of InformationElementA.
If, however, one of the features was modified, e.g. the feature A3 associated with fieldA3, the network should assume the UE only supports the feature A3 according to the release it indicated in field accessStratumRelease (i.e. X).
The UE is neither required to support the additional code-point (n80-vY0) nor the additional sub-field (fieldA3c-rY).
InformationElementA-rX ::=      SEQUENCE {
	fieldA1-rX                      InformationElementA1-rX                 OPTIONAL,   -- Need N
    fieldA2-rX                      InformationElementA2-rX                 OPTIONAL,   -- Need R
    fieldA3-rX                      InformationElementA3-rX                 OPTIONAL    -- Need R
}

InformationElementA-rY ::=      SEQUENCE {
    fieldA1-rY                      InformationElementA1-rX                 OPTIONAL,   -- Need N
    fieldA2-rY                      InformationElementA2-rX                 OPTIONAL,   -- Need R
    fieldA3-rY                      InformationElementA3-rY                 OPTIONAL,   -- Need R
    fieldA4-rY                      InformationElementA4-rY                 OPTIONAL,   -- Need R
    fieldA5-rY                      InformationElementA5-rY                 OPTIONAL    -- Need R
}

InformationElementA3-rX ::= SEQUENCE {
    fieldA3a-rX                     InformationElementA3a-rX                OPTIONAL,   -- Need N
    fieldA3b-rX                     ENUMERATED {n10, n20, n40}              OPTIONAL    -- Need R
}

InformationElementA3-rY ::=    SEQUENCE {
    fieldA3a-rY                     InformationElementA3a-rX                OPTIONAL,   -- Need N
    fieldA3b-rY                     ENUMERATED {n10, n20, n40, n80-vY0}     OPTIONAL,   -- Need R
    fieldA3c-rY                     InformationElementA3c-rY                OPTIONAL    -- Need R
}

Non-critical extensions (dedicated and broadcast signaling)
If the early implemented feature involves one or more non-critical extensions, the UE shall comprehend the parts of the transfer syntax (ASN.1) of release Y that are related to the feature implemented early.
If the early implemented feature involves one or more non-critical extensions in dedicated signaling, the network does not include extensions introduced after the release X that are not the parts related to the feature which the UE indicates early support of in UE capabilities. The UE shall anyway comprehend the parts of the transfer syntax (ASN.1) which indicate absence of such extensions.
If the early implemented feature involves one or more non-critical extensions in system information, the SIB(s) containing the release Y fields related to the early implemented features may also include other extensions introduced after the release X that are not the parts related to the feature which the UE supports. The UE shall comprehend such intermediate fields (but again is not required to support the functionality associated with these intermediate fields, in case this concerns optional features not supported by the UE).
Annex E (informative): Change history



